.2nd September, 2016 THE KENYA GAZETTE 3643 Application of the Code 
4. (1) This Code shall apply to State Officers in the County Executive of Machakos 
(2) The provisions of Chapter Six of the Constitution, the Leadership and Integrity Act, and the Public Officer Ethics Act 2003 shall form part of this Code. 
Commitment to the Code 
5. (1) A State Officer elected or appointed to the County Executive Committee of Machakos shall sign a declaration of commitment to this Code at the time of taking oath of office or within seven days of assuming office. 
(2) A serving State Officer shall sign and commit to this Code within seven days of the publication of the Code in the Gazette. 
(3) The declaration of commitment to the Code shall take the form and structure set out in the First Schedule to this Code. 
PART III - REQUIREMENTS 
Rule of Law 
6. (1) A State Officer shall respect and abide by the Constitution and all other laws. 
(2) A State Officer shall carry out the duties of his/her office in accordance with the law. 
(3 )In carrying out the duties of his/her office, a State Officer shall not violate the rights and fundamental freedoms of any person unless otherwise expressly provided for in any applicable law and in accordance with Article 24 of the Constitution. 
Public trust 
7. A State Office is a position of public trust and the authority and responsibility vested in a State Officer shall be exercised by the State Officer in the best interest of the office and the people of Kenya. 
Responsibility and duties 
8. Subject to the Constitution and any other law, a State Officer shall take personal responsibility for the reasonably foreseeable consequences of any actions or omissions arising from the discharge of the duties of his/her office. 
Performance of duties 
9. A State Officer shall, to the best of his/her ability - 
(a) carry out the duties of the office efficiently and honestly; 
(b) carry out the duties of the office in a transparent and accountable manner; 
(c) carry out the duties of his/her office in a manner that maintains public confidence in the integrity of the office; 
(d) treat members of the public, staff and other state and public officers with courtesy and respect; 
(e) keep accurate records and documents relating to the functions of the office; and report truthfully on all matters of the office. Professionalism 
10. A State Officer shall- 
(a) to the extent appropriate to the office, maintain high standards of performance and level of professionalism within the office; and 
(b) If the State Officer is a member of a professional body, observe and subscribe to the ethical and professional requirements of that body in so far as the requirements do not contravene the Constitution, any other law or this Code. 
Confidentiality 
11. Subject to Article 35 of the Constitution and any other relevant law, a State Officer shall not disclose or cause to be disclosed any information in his custody to any unauthorized person. 
Financial probity 
12. (1) A State Officer shall not use his/her office to unlawfully or wrongfully enrich himself/herself or any other person. 
(2) Subject to article 76(2) (b) of the Constitution, a State Officer shall not accept a personal loan or benefit which may compromise the State Officer in carrying out duties. 
(3) A State Officer shall submit an initial declaration of income, assets and liabilities within thirty days of assuming office and 3643 thereafter make biennial declarations to the County Secretary, and a final declaration within (30) days of ceasing to be a State Officer. 
(3) The County Secretary shall submit the Declaration received under sub-paragraph (2) to the County Public Service Board. 
(4) A declaration filed by a State Officer in accordance with the provisions of sub-paragraph (2) shall be accessible to the Commission and any other person, subject to the provisions of Section 30 of the Public Officer Ethics Act, 2003. 
(5) A State Officer shall pay any taxes, loans or other debts due from him within the prescribed period. 
Moral and ethical requirements 
13. (1) A State Officer shall observe and maintain the following ethical and moral requirements - 
(a) demonstrate honesty in the conduct of his or her public and private affairs; 
(b) not to engage in activities that amount to abuse of office; 
(c) accurately and honesty represent information to the public; (d) not to engage in wrongful conduct in furtherance of personal benefit; 
( e) not to misuse public resources; 
(f) not to falsify any records; 
(8) not to sexually harass or have inappropriate sexual relations with other State Officers, staff of the Office or any other person; 
(h) not to engage in actions which would lead to the State Officers removal from the membership of a professional body in accordance with the law; 
(i) not to commit offences and in particular, any of the offences under Parts XV and XVI of the Penal Code, Sexual Offences Act, 2006, the Counter-Trafficking in Persons Act, 2008, and the Children Act; 
(). not to engage in fighting or physical confrontation with any person; and 
(2) A person who wishes to be appointed to the Office shall for the purposes of this Code, submit to the Commission a self-declaration in the form set out in the First Schedule to the Act. 
(3) In respect to a person wishing to be elected to the Office, the Declaration under sub-paragraph (2) shall be submitted to the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission. 
(4) A State Officer shall maintain high standards of etiquette at all imes. 
Gifts or benefits in kind 
14. (1) A gift or donation given to a State Officer on a public or official occasion shall be treated as a gift of donation to the Office. 
(2) Notwithstanding subparagraph (1) a State Officer may receive a gift given to the State Officer in official capacity, provided that- (a) the gift is within the ordinary bounds of propriety, a usual expression of courtesy or protocol and within the ordinary standards of hospitality; 
(b) the gift is not monetary; and 
( c) the gift does not exceed the value of Kenya Shillings Twenty Thousand (Kshs. 20,000) or such other amount as may be prescribed by the Commission through Regulations. 
(3) A State Officer shall not -- 
(a) accept or solicit gifts, hospitality or other benefits from a person who- 
(i) has an interest in any matter under consideration by the Office; 
(ii) has a contractual relationship with the Office; 
(iii) has any interest that is directly or indirectly connected with the State Officers duties. 
( b ) receive a gift which has the potential of compromising his/her integrity, objectivity or impartiality; or 
(c) accept any type of gift expressly prohibited under the Act. 
(4) A State Officer who receives a gift or donation shall declare the gift or donation to the Authorized Officer within seven days of receipt of the gift. 
