24th December, 2015 THE KENYA GAZETTE 3043 
(b) Recommend to the County Government effective measures to promote the Values and Principles; 
(c) Assist County Government in the formulation and implementation of programmes intended to inculcate in public officers the duty to uphold the values and principles; 
(d) Advise the County Governments on their obligations under international treaties and conventions on good governance in the county public service; 
(e) Visit any county public office or body with a view to assessing and inspecting the status of compliance with the values and principles; 
(f) Investigate, on its own initiative or upon a complaint made by any person or group of persons, the violation of any values and principles; 
(g) Recommend to the relevant lawful authority, any necessary action in view of the violation of the values and principles by any person or public body; 
(h) Cooperate with other institutions working in the field of good governance in the public service; and 
(i) Perform any other functions as the Board considers necessary for the promotion of the values and principles. 
According to Section 59 (1) (f) of the County Government Act, 2012, the County Public Service Board is expected evaluate and report to the County Assembly on the extent to which the values referred to in Articles 10 and 232 are complied with in the County Public Service. This report therefore focuses on this particular function of the board. National Values and Principles of Governance 
As provided for under Article 10 of the Constitution of Kenya 2010, the National Values and Principles of Governance include: 
(a)Patriotism, national unity, sharing and devolution of power, the rule of law, democracy and participation of the people; 
(b)Human dignity, equity, social justice, inclusiveness, equality, human rights, non-discrimination and protection of marginalised; 
(c) Good governance, integrity, transparency and accountability; and 
(d)Sustainable development. 
Values and Principles of Public Service 
Values and principles of public service as set out in Article 232 of the Constitution of Kenya 2010 are— 
(a) High standards of professional ethics; 
(b) Efficient, effective and economic use of resources; 
(c) Responsive, prompt, effective, impartial and equitable provision of services; 
(d) Involvement of people in the process of policy making, 
(e) Accountability for administrative acts; 
(f) Transparency and provision to the public of timely, accurate information; 
(g) Subject to paragraphs (h) and (i), fair competition and merit as the basis of appointments and promotions; 
(h) Representation of Kenya’s diverse communities; and 
(i) Affording adequate and equal opportunities for appointment, training and advancement, at all levels of the public service, of- (i) Men and women; 
(ii) The members of all ethnic groups; and 
(iii) Persons with disabilities. 
CHAPTER TWO 
2.0 THE EXTENT OF COMPLIANCE WITH VALUES AND 
PRINCIPLES 
2.1 BACKGROUND 
This report is provided pursuant to Section 59 (1) (f) of the County Government Act 2012 which requires the County Public Service 3043 
Board to evaluate and report to the County Assembly on the extent to which the values and principles referred to in Articles 10 and 232 are complied with in the County Public Service. 
2.2 THE EXTENT OF COMPLIANCE: ARTICLE 10: NATIONAL VALUES AND PRINCIPLES OF GOVERNANCE 
2.2.1 Patriotism, National Unity, Sharing and Devolution of Power, the Rule of Law, Democracy and Participation of the People 
2.2.1.1 Situation Analysis 
During the recruitment process, the Board discovered that a number of candidates did not comprehend the content and significance of the National anthem and elements of National unity as per the Second Schedule of the Constitution of Kenya 2010. Noted also was that majority of the County Public Service officers were not conversant with the Constitution and other laws relevant to their areas of operations. Further, the County Government was unable to effectively perform its devolved functions because some of the devolved units had not been fully operationalised. These included Sub counties, Towns wards and villages. 
2.2.1.2 Action Taken 
To address the issue of poor comprehension of the National anthem, The Board incorporated questions on the same in the interview process to excite interest in the content and significance of the National anthem and elements of National unity as per the Second Schedule of the Constitution of Kenya 2010. County colours and symbols are being incorporated in all official County documents and signage. Several County offices are hoisting the National and the County flags. 
The Board uploaded the constitution and other relevant laws, and continues to upload newly enacted laws relating to Values and principles of Public Service to County Website and has drawn the attention of the County employees to the same. Additionally, the Board formally conducted sensitisation workshops where employees were exposed to relevant laws and their application. 
The Board has recruited and is still in the process of strengthening the internal capacities of the Sub County, Town, and Ward administration units. Following the enactment of the Kitui County Villages Act, 2015, The Board has embarked on the process of recruiting the village administrators. 
Democracy and Participation of the People has been and continues to be realised through policy formulation forums; the Education Forums, investor conference, and many other stakeholder consultative meetings on development, Cultural events such as beauty pageants, County Integrated development plan, youth forums, women forums etc. 
2.2.2 Human dignity, equity, social justice, inclusiveness, equality, human rights, non- discrimination and protection of the marginalised 2.2.2.1 Situation Analysis 
Assessment on the Compliance regarding Human dignity, equity, social justice, inclusiveness, equality, human rights, non- discrimination and protection of the marginalised was done. It was found out that various offices in the county did not have ablution blocks for convenience, those in existence were in a poor state and unlabelled by gender. 
Analysis of records of county public service was done. It established that the legal requirements for youth and gender in appointments had been met; however, there was need for concerted effort to address the requirements for Persons living with disability, and the marginalised. 
2.2.2.2 Action Taken 
(a) The County Government embarked on construction of ablution blocks in public places like markets, schools, offices, bus parks to ensure that Kitui County is open defecation free, and ensure a healthy environment and also protect the human dignity. 
(b) The Board has continued to monitor compliance and ensure the ratio of male to female employees meets the constitutional threshold. 
(c) The Board has continued to advertise opportunities for job vacancies in order to reach all and allow for fair competition. 