28502850 THE KENYA GAZETTE 10th August, 2018 The development plan relate to land situated within Kabarnet Town, Baringo Central Sub-County, Baringo County. 
Copies of the development plan as prepared have been deposited for public inspection at the office of County Executive for Lands, Housing and Urban Development and County Physical Planning at Kabarnet Town. 
The copies so deposited are available for inspection free of charge by all persons interested at the office of County Executive for Lands, Housing and Urban Development and County Physical Planning, Kabarnet Town, between the hours of 8.00 a.m. and 5.00 p.m., Monday to Friday. 
Any interested person who wishes to make any representation in connection with or objection to the above development plan may send such representations or objections in writing to be received by the County Director of Physical Planning, P.O. Box 53–30400, Kabarnet, within sixty (60) days from the date of this publication. And that any such representation or objections shall state the grounds on which it is made. 
Dated the 20th June, 2018. 
FRANKLINE KICHE, MR/5111842 for Director of Physical Planning. GAZETTE NOTICE NO. 8171 
THE PHYSICAL PLANNING ACT 
(Cap. 286) 
COMPLETION OF PART DEVELOPMENT PLAN 
PDP No. ISL/117/2018/165–Existing Commercial Plot 
NOTICE is given that the above-mentioned part development plan was on 16th July, 2018, completed. 
The part development plan relates to land situated in Isiolo Town, Isiolo County. 
Copies of the part development plan have been deposited for public inspection at the Office of the Chief Officer, Ministry of Lands and Physical Planning, 2nd Floor, Ardhi House, Isiolo. 
The copies so deposited are available for inspection free of charge by all persons interested at the office of the Chief Officer, Ministry of Lands and Physical Planning, 2nd Floor, Ardhi House, Isiolo, between the hours of 8.00 a.m. to 5.00 p.m., Monday to Friday. 
Any interested person (s) who wishes to make any representation in connection with or objection to the above-named part development plan may send such representations or objections in writing to be received by the County Physical Planner, P.O. Box 36–60300, Isiolo, within sixty (60) days from the date of publication of this notice and such representation or objection shall state the grounds on which it is made. 
Dated the 16th July, 2018. 
KIMUTAI CHERUIYOT, MR/5111758 for Director of Physical Planning. GAZETTE NOTICE NO. 8172 
THE ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT AND 
CO-ORDINATION ACT 
(No. 8 of 1999) 
THE NATIONAL ENVIRONMENT MANAGEMENT 
AUTHORITY 
ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT STUDY REPORT FOR THE PROPOSED CONSTRUCTION OF RESIDENTIAL APARTMENTS ON PLOT L.R. NO. 1/95 ALONG ARGWINGS KODHEK ROAD, IN HURLINGHAM AREA, NAIROBI CITY COUNTY 
INVITATION OF PUBLIC COMMENTS 
Pursuant to Regulation 21 of the Environmental Management and Co-ordination (Impact Assessment and Audit) Regulations, 2003, the National Environment Management Authority (NEMA) has received 10th August, 2018 an Environmental Impact Assessment Study Report for the above proposed project. 
The proponent, Double Win Company Limited, is proposing to construct 2 blocks of 14 storey residential apartments on Plot L.R. No. 1/95 comprising of: basement 1 and 2 will comprise 168No. Units, 130No. parking spaces, 63No. parking bays, driveways and gate house, lifts and lobby areas, guard house, drainage system for disposing sewage, gate and boundary wall, site landscaping and development of water channels. The conceived project is designed to be within character of the current housing trend of the project area, where a survey revealed that apartments are common. The motivation for establishment of the project is the existing high demand for affordable houses in Nairobi City County and the larger Nairobi Metropolitan region. 
The following are the anticipated impacts and proposed mitigation measures 
Impact Proposed Mitigation Measures 
Commissioning of the • Site hand-over and Ground breaking 
construction works 
Collapse of building • Ensuring building strength and stability. during construction 
• Use of appropriate construction materials and reinforcements as per specifications. • Ensuring building components are as per designs. 
• Proper supervision. 
• Ensure proper timelines are followed e.g. curing time. 
Disturbance of traffic • Proper signage. 
flow during 
construction phases • Awareness creation. 
• Education to truck drivers. 
• dropping of materials during off-peak hours. 
Soil excavation leading • Excavate only areas to be affected by to site disturbance buildings. 
• Dumping of excess excavated materials to sites designated by NEMA and County Authority. 
• Restoration of sites excavated. 
Soil erosion • Create and maintain soil traps and embankments. 
• Landscaping after completion of construction. 
Noise pollution and • Ensure use of serviced and greased vibration equipment. 
• Switch off engines not in use. 
• Construction work to be confined to between 8 a.m. to 5 p.m. 
• Ensure use of earmuffs by machine operators. 
Air quality • Water sprinkling of driveways or the use of biodegradable hydrant e.g.Terrasorb polymer will reduce dust emission during construction. 
• Ensure servicing of vehicles regularly. 
Solid waste generation • Ensure waste materials are disposed off on County Authorities and NEMA approved sites. 
• Ensure re-use of materials that can be re- used. 
• Use of the 3Rs–Reduce, Re-use, Re-cycle. Disruption of existing • Development restricted to follow zoning natural environment policy/approved density building line, plot and modification of coverage and plot ratio. 
micro-climate 
