10th February, 2017 THE KENYA GAZETTE 729 
Act or other law that for the time being governs the conduct of State Officers in the Assembly. 
(6) If upon investigation into the alleged breach of the Code, the Office is of the opinion that civil or criminal proceedings out to be 
preferred against the respective State Officer, it shall refer the matter to— 
(a) the Commission, with respect to civil matters; and 
(b) the director of Public Prosecutions with respect to criminal matters. 
(7) Where the complaint is made to the Commission, the Commission shall take such action against the State Officer as it deems necessary in accordance with its mandate under the law. 
(8) Notwithstanding sub-paragraph (5), the Commission may, subject to the law, take any additional action it deems appropriate in relation to any breach of the Code or require the Office to take any action against a State Office who has breached the Code. 
Victimization 
43. A State Officer shall not in any way victimize any other State Officer or Public Officer or any other person for any lawful action or omission. 
Duty of Authorized Officer and Accounting Officer to comply with directives of the Commission in implementation of the Code 
44. The Authorized Officer or Accounting Officer of the Office shall at all times comply with such orders or directives as may be issued by the Commission from time to time towards the implementation and enforcement of this Code. 
PART IV—GENERAL PROVISIONS 
Advisory opinion 
45. A State Officer or the office may request the Commission to give an advisory opinion on any issue relating to, but not limited to— (a) the application of chapter six of the constitution; 
(b) the application of the Act or any other applicable law or regulations dealing with the ethics and integrity of State Officers; 
(c) the application of the Public Officer Ethics Act 2003, or any other law or regulations dealing with the ethics and integrity of public officers; 
(d) the application of this Code; 
(e) an ethical dilemma; or 
(f) any other matter incidental to the promotion of the ethics and integrity of State Officers and public officers generally. 
Training on Leadership and Integrity 
46. The office shall collaborate with the Commission to ensure that the State Officers and public officers serving in the Office are sensitized on leadership and integrity issues at least once a year. 
Personal responsibility for compliance 
47. Each State Officer shall take personal responsibility or compliance with the provisions of this Code. 
Annual Report 
48. The Authorized Office or his designate shall cause to be prepared and submitted to the Commission an Annual Report on the progress made in implementation and enforcement of the Code in a prescribed format by the Commission. 
Amendment of the Code 
49. The Office may with approval of the Commission amend this Code. 
FIRST SCHEDULE (Para. 6(3)) 
COMMITMENT TO THE LEADERSHIP AND INTEGRITY CODE FOR STATE OFFICERS IN THE COUNTY ASSEMBLY OF TUKANA 
I…………………………………………………………….holder of National ID/Passport No…………………….... and Post Office Box No. ………………………………………….. having been elected as in the County Assembly ……………………………………………… 
of ………. do hereby confirm that I have read and understood the 729 
Leadership and Integrity Code for State Officers in the County Assembly of ……. and hereby solemnly declare and commit myself to abide by the provisions of the Code at all times. 
SIGNED at ………………………………...............................………..) By the said …………………………………………………………… Deponent 
This………........day of……...…20…….......) 
) 
Before Me ) 
…………………….....……………..…….) 
Judge/ Magistrate/ Commissioner for Oaths 
At….....................this………day of………………………2016 
………………………………………… 
Speaker of the County Assembly 
Turkana County Government 
APPROVED by the Ethics and Anti-corruption commission, in accordance with the provisions of section 39 of the leadership and integrity act 2012. 
At…………………this …………………day of ………………..2016. …………………………………………………. 
SECRETARY/ CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER 
ETHICS AND ANTI-CORRUPTION COMMISSION 
MR/2580818 
GAZETTE NOTICE NO. 1230 
THE CONSTITUTION OF KENYA 
THE COUNTY GOVERNMENTS ACT 
(No. 17 of 2012) 
WEST POKOT COUNTY PUBLIC SERVICE BOARD 
1.0 Introduction 
The West Pokot County Public Service Board is a body corporate established by section 57 of the County Government Act, 2012 being the actualization of Article 235 of the Constitution of Kenya, 2010 which the County Government has the task of; 
(a) Establishing and abolishing offices in its public service. 
(b) Appointing persons to hold or act in those offices, confirming appointments; and 
(c) Exercising disciplinary control over and removing persons holding or acting in those offices. 
2.0 Promotion of Values and Principles of Public Service 
Report on measures taken and the program achieved in the realization of National Values referred to Article 10 and 232 of the constitution. 
These include— 
(a) patriotism, national unity, sharing and devolution of power, the rule of law, democracy and participation of the people. 
(b) human dignity, equity, social justice, inclusiveness, equality, human rights, non-discrimination and protection of the marginalized. 
(c) good governance, integrity, transparency and accountability. (d) sustainable development. 
In line with the requirement of section 4 (a) of the County Government Act, (No. 17 of 2012), the board undertook the following programmes. 
2.1 Training on Promotion of values and principles of Public service The West Pokot County Public Service Board visited Pokot North Sub-County to train and educate County Public Officers on the values and Principles of public service from 20th to 23rd January, 2016. 
During induction of new staff, training on values and principles of principles of public service is done. This is a continuous exercise. 
