2464 THE KENYA GAZETTE 5th July, 2019 
Category JG Establishment Proposed 
Security Guards 3 
Office Assistant 1 1 
Ground's men E 2 
Messenger 1 
Total 26 
O - IN 
2. ACTIVITIES OF THE BOARD DURING THE YEAR 2018 
(i) Establish and abolish offices 
The Board is expected to; 
Prepare and review county Organogram and submit to the county assembly for approval. 
Determine and prepare ideal county staff establishment for county departments. 
Participate in the county staff headcount exercise. 
Undertake skill audit and staff rationalizing. 
Determine staff gaps and advise county government or abolishing of offices. 
(ii) Exercise disciplinary control 
recommendations. 
Receive and determine appeals from county staff. 
(iii) Undertake monitoring and reporting 
Prepare quarterly reports on the execution of the functions of the Board. 
Prepare annual report on operations of the Board to the County Assembly. 
Receive and analyze feedback reports from the County Assembly. 
training. 
(iv) Values and principles 
Prepare Information, Education and Communication (IEC) materials on values and principles. Adopt, customize and implement the public service code of conduct. 
Train TOTs on values and principles. 
uphold the values and principles. 
Assess compliance with the values and principles and report to the County Assembly. 
Establish and maintain a complaints and complements resolution system. 
(v) Establish performance management system 
relevant lawful authority. 
Administer declaration of income, assets and liabilities on behalf of PSC and EACC. 
Sensitize county public service on declaration of income, assets and liabilities. 
Design systems for good governance with other public institutions. 
Publish and publicize values and principles report in the County Gazette. 
Prepare a work plan on promotion of values and principles. 
(vi) Human resource, planning, management and development 
Recruitment of County Public Service. 
Induction of newly recruited staff. 
Undertake annual audit on compliance with HR policies, circulars and directives. 
Adopt and customize the public service HR Manual. 
5th July, 2019 
In Post Variance 
3 0 
0 
0 -2 
0 -1 
9 17 
