3618 THE KENYA GAZETTE 2nd September, 2016 
4. County Governments 
(i) Develop and maintain County LIMS in line with NLIMS standards and guidelines in consultation and coordination with NLC. 
(ii) Generate, implement, maintain, provide access and share and information with NLIMS. 
(iii) Provide budgetary fund allocation to support County LIMS. 
(iv) Support the development of human resource capacity in the County governments in regard to County LIMS. 
(v) Provide a legislative framework to govern County LIMS in consultation with NLC. 
5. Line Ministries, Departments and Agencies 
(i) Generate, share and maintain land information within NLIMS as mandated and in conformity with the standards and guidelines. 
(ii) Create awareness and capacity building on NLIMS in line with their mandate. 
(iii) Align policies and legislation to support NLIMS. 
6. Researchers and Institutions of Higher Learning. 
(i) Carry out research to continually improve on LIMS in collaboration with NLC. 
(ii) Contribute to capacity development in consultation with National, County Governments and the NLC. 
7. Development Partners 
(i) Liaise with National and County Governments through NLC to guide projects that contribute to NLIMS. 
(ii) Assist in mobilization of funds and resources for NLIMS. 
(iii) Assist and facilitate setting up LIMS related policies at local, national, regional, and international levels. 
8. Private Sector 
(i) Produce land information in conformity with NLIMS standards and guidelines. 
(ii) Share land information with NLIMS as allowed by their mandate and the law. 
(iii) Provide and advice the relevant institutions dealing with land on capacity building for NLIMS. 
9. Civil Society Organizations 
(i) Produce and share land information in conformity with the standards and guidelines. 
(ii) Liaise with National and County Governments through NLC to guide projects that can contribute land information to NLIMS. 
(iii) Complement the advocacy efforts on the implementation of NLIMS. 
(iv) Engage with community groups to promote informed and transparent implementation of NLIMS. 
10. Media 
(i) Creating awareness to the public on the ongoing activities and issues related to land information. 
(ii) Creating a platform for public participation on land matters. 
(iii) Share media content on NLIMS via necessary protocols. 11. Communities and Special Interest Groups 
(i) Participate in the generation of land information in line with the existing law and provide these to NLIMS. 
(ii) Participate in development of land inventory in line with NLIMS standards and guidelines. 
(iii) Provide access and verify land information of their land including location of sensitive ecological nature and sites in conjunction with relevant government institutions. 
2nd September, 2016 
12. Citizens 
(1) Grant access to information on land to authorized persons. 
(ii) Provide and/or participate in the generation of land information in line with the existing laws and provide these to NLIMS. 
(iii) Participate in development of land inventory in line with NLIMS standards and guidelines. 
(iv) Participate in dispute resolution mechanisms and processes. 
13. Judiciary 
(i) To generate records, court orders, notification on proceedings in matters related to NLIMS promptly. 
(ii) To facilitate access to judgments and records of the courts and tribunals. 
(iii) To facilitate dispute resolutions mechanisms and processes among various players. 
(iv) Interpret and/or advise on land laws and regulations for matters related to NLIMS. 
14. Professional Bodies 
(i) Participate in the development and review of standards and guidelines for LIMS and legislations touching on land. 
(ii) Sensitization of professionals to share land information to NLIMS. 
(iii) Regulation of their respective professions. 
4. Processes and Procedures 
1. Land administration and management processes captured in the NLIMS include, but are not limited to: 
(1) Planning process 
(ii) Survey process 
(iii) Valuation process 
(iv Allocation process 
(v) Title process 
(vi) Registration process 
(vii) Development application process 
(a) Change of user 
(b) Extension/ renewal of lease 
(c) Sub-division/ amalgamation 
(d) Building plan approval 
(viii) Transfer 
(a) Consent to transfer 
(b) Application for land rent clearance certificate 
(ix) Charge/ mortgage process 
(x) Sub-lease process 
(xi) Land Adjudication process 
(xii) Settlement process 
(xiii) Compulsory land acquisition 
(xiv) Conversions from leasehold to freehold and vice versa 
(xv) Restitution processes 
(xvi) Natural resource management 
(xvii) Legal processes. 
(xviii) Acquisition of way leaves and easement process 
(xix) Historical heritage and cultural preservation process 
(xx) Land re-adjustment process 
(xxi) Urban renewal process 
(xxii) Land banking process 
(xxiii) Review of grants and disposition on public land 
2. All institutions that generate land information shall provide an inventory on processes, as listed above, that lead to generation 