10th August, 2018 THE KENYA GAZETTE 2829 (ii) proposed issues for inclusion in County policies and County legislation; 
(iii) proposed national policies and legislation; 
(iv) the proposed annual budget estimates of the County and of the national government; 
(v) the proposed development plans of the County and of the national government; and 
(vi) any other matter of concern to the citizens; 
(b) plan strategies for engaging the various levels and units of government on matters of concern to citizens; 
(c) monitor the activities of elected and appointed officials of the Municipality, including members of the Board; and 
(d) receive representations, including feedback on issues raised by the county citizens, from elected and appointed officials. 4.15.5 The board shall invite petitions and representations from the Citizen Fora with regard to the administration and management of the affairs within the Municipality. 
4.15.6 The Manager shall make a report on the decision made by the Board in respect of a petition or presentation made by a citizen fora and reasons for such decision. 
5. Recommendation to the County Government relating to Legislation 5.1 The Board may make recommendation to the County Government on topical substantive and procedural issues relating to the Municipality that the County Government should make legislation on. 
6. Administrative Authority 
6.1 Resolutions 
6.1.1 The Board shall exercise its administrative authority by approving resolutions. 
6.2 Approval of Resolutions 
6.2.1 Approval of a resolution or any other Board administrative decision requires approval by a majority of the Board. 
6.2.2 Any substantive amendment to a resolution must be read aloud and made available in writing to the public before the Board adopts the resolution. 
6.2.3 After approval of a resolution or other administrative decision, the vote of each member must be entered into the Board minutes. 6.3 Effective Date of Resolutions 
6.3.1 Resolutions and other administrative decisions take effect on the date of approval, or on a later date expressly provided in the resolution. 
7. The Municipal Manager 
7.1 Office of the Municipal Manager 
7.1.1 There is established the office of the Municipal Manager. 
7.1.2 The Municipal Manager shall be the administrative head of Marsabit Municipality. 
7.2 Appointment and Term of Office 
7.2.1 A Municipal manager shall be competitively recruited in accordance with section 29 of Urban Areas and Cities Act. 
7.2.2 The office of the Municipal Manager shall be an office in the county public service. 
7.2.3 The Municipal Manager shall be responsible to the County Executive Committee Member for the administration of the Municipality. 
7.2.4 The Municipal Manager may resign from office by giving notice, in writing, to the County Executive Committee Member. 
7.2.5 The office of the manager shall become vacant, if the manager– (a) resigns from office in writing to County Executive Committee member; 
2829 (b) dies; 
(c) is convicted of an offence punishable by a term of imprisonment exceeding six(6) months; 
(d) violates the provisions of Chapter Six of the Constitution; 
(e) is culpable of gross misconduct, whether in the performance of the member’s functions; 
(f) is incapable of performing the official functions of the office due to physical or mental incapacity; 
(g) is absent from three consecutive meeting without good cause; (h) is adjudged bankrupt; or 
(i) is incompetent or unfit to discharge official duties. 
7.2.6 Before removal from office under paragraph (1) (a), a member shall be accorded a fair opportunity to be heard by the County Executive Committee member. 
7.3 Qualifications 
7.3.1 Subject to Article 232 of the Constitution, a person shall qualify to be appointed as a municipal manager if the person— 
(a) is a Kenyan citizen; 
(b) holds a degree from a university recognized in Kenya or its equivalent; and 
(c) has proven experience of not less than five (5) years in administration or management either in the public or private sector. 
(d) is a Certified Public Secretary of good professional standing as per section 59 (2) of the County Government Act 
7.3.2 In appointing the Municipal Manager, the County Public Service Board shall ensure— 
(a) gender equity; 
(b) the inclusion of minorities and marginalized communities; and 
(c) the person satisfies the requirements of Chapter six of the Constitution. 
7.3.3 The Municipal Manager need not reside within the Municipality but must be a resident within the County. 
7.3.4 The Municipal Manager shall hold office for five-year term renewable once. 
7.4 Functions and Powers of the Municipal Manager 
7.4.1 The Municipal Manager shall implement the decisions and functions of the Board and shall be answerable to the Board. 
7.4.2 As soon as is practicable, and in any event not later than thirty (30) days from the date of receipt of an audit report together with annual statements and abstracts of accounts, the manager shall― (a) lay the documents before the board or town committee for consideration; and 
(b) make them available to any resident of the area within the jurisdiction of the board, upon application and payment of the prescribed fee as per the Marsabit County Finance Act. 7.4.3 The Municipal Manager shall— 
(a) act on behalf of the Board of the Municipality— 
(i) in ensuring the execution or implementation of the directives of the Board; and 
(ii) during all intervals between meetings of the Board; 
(b) prepare and present for approval of the Board of the Municipality, an annual estimate of revenue and expenditure to fund and carry out the programmes and operations of the Board; 
(c) be principally responsible for building and maintaining a strong alliance and effective working relationships between 