20th January, 2017 THE KENYA GAZETTE 505 
matter in which the State Officer was originally engaged in as a State Officer, for at least two years after leaving the office. 
Misleading the public 
29. A State Officer shall not knowingly give false or misleading information to any person. 
Falsification of Records 
30. A State Officer shall not falsify any records or misrepresent information to the public 
Conduct of private Affairs 
31. A State Officer shall conduct their private affairs in a manner that maintains public confidence in the integrity of the Office. 
Bullying 
32. (1) A State Officer shall not bully another State or Public Officer or any other person. 
(2) For purposes of subparagraph (1) ―bullying‖ includes blackmail, coercion, threats, intimidation or repeated offensive behaviour which is vindictive, cruel, malicious or humiliating whether or not is intended to undermine a person and includes physical assault. 
Acting through Others 
33. (1) A State Officer shall not— 
(a) cause anything to be done through another person that would constitute a contravention of this Code, the Constitution or any other law if done by the State Officer or 
(b) allow or direct a person under their supervision or control to do anything that is in contravention of this Code, the Constitution or any other law. 
(2) Subparagraph (1) (b) shall not apply where anything is done without the State Officer’s knowledge or consent or if the State Officer has taken reasonable steps to prevent it. 
Reporting improper orders 
34. If a State Officer considers that anything required of him or her is in contravention of the Code or is otherwise improper or unethical, the State Officer shall report the matter to the Commission. 
(2) The Commission shall investigate the report and take 
appropriate action within ninety days of receiving the report. 
Duty to prevent Occurrence of corruption or unethical practice in the office 
36. A State Officer who believes or has reason to believe corrupt act or unethical malpractice has occurred or is about to occur in the office shall take all necessary measures to prevent it from continuing or materializing in addition to any other appropriate action. 
Use of Social Media 
37. A State Officer shall not use social media in a manner that is prejudicial to public interest, national cohesion or that otherwise constitutes a breach of any law 
Dress code 
38. A State Officer shall maintain appropriate standard of dress and personal hygiene at all times. 
Political and other Influence 
39. (1)A State Officer shall exercise independence in the discharge of his duties and shall not allow himself to be subjected to political or any other internal or external influence that is detrimental to public interest. 
(2) a State Officer shall not influence of attempt to influence the decision of any other State or Public Officer or public entity on any matter. 
(3) A State Officer shall not in any way interfere with the duties of any other State Officer Public Officer or public entity. 
Provisions relating to implementation of projects 
40. (1) A State Officer shall in the exercise of oversight over implementation of projects not interfere with such implementation in any way. 
(2) A State Officer shall not influence the undertaking of any project without prior planning or budgeting. 
(3) A State Officer shall not demand or accept any kickbacks, gifts, benefits or other favours from contractors or other persons or entities who are engaged in implementation projects. 
505 
(4) A State Officer shall not compromise or abet comprising of standards of any project. 
(5) A State Officer shall, subject to the law, disclose all relevant information regarding any project to any person requiring such information. 
Preferential treatment 
41. A State Officer shall ensure equal and equitable distribution of resources to all persons and any section of the population in his area of jurisdiction and shall not confer any undue advantage to any person or section of the population. 
PART III—ENFORCEMENT OF THE CODE 
42. (1) any person may lodge a complaint alleging a breach of this code by a 
State Officer to the Office or to the commission 
(2) Breach of this Code amounts to misconduct for which the State Officer may be subjected to disciplinary proceedings including removal from office; 
(3) Where a Breach of this code amounts to violation of the Constitution, the State Officer may be removed from the office in accordance with the applicable laws. 
(4) Where an allegation of breach is made to the Office, the person alleging the breach shall submit a petition setting out the grounds and facts of the alleged violation to the Authorized Officer of the Office 
(5) Upon receipt of the Complaint, the Office shall register and carry out investigations into the complaint, and may take action against the State Officer in accordance with the Act, Standing Orders of the Assembly, any Regulations made by the Commission under the Act or other law that for the time being governs the conduct of State Officers in the Assembly 
(6) If upon investigation into the alleged breach of the Code, the Office is of the opinion that civil or criminal proceedings out to be preferred against the respective State Officer, it shall refer the matter to— 
(a) the Commission, with respect to civil matters; and 
(b) the director of Public Prosecutions with respect to criminal matters. 
(7) Where the complaint is made to the Commission, the Commission shall take such action against the State Officer as it deems necessary in accordance with its mandate under the law 
(8) Notwithstanding sub-paragraph (5), the Commission may, subject to the law, take any additional action it deems appropriate in relation to any breach of the Code or require the Office to take any action against a State Office who has breached the Code 
Victimization 
43. A State Officer shall not in any way victimize any other State Officer or Public Officer or any other person for any lawful action or omission 
Duty of Authorized Officer and Accounting Officer to comply with directives of the Commission in implementation of the Code 
44. The Authorized Officer or Accounting Officer of the Office shall at all times comply with such orders or directives as may be issued by the Commission from time to time towards the implementation and enforcement of this Code 
PART IV—GENERAL PROVISIONS 
Advisory opinion 
45. A State Officer or the office may request the Commission to give an advisory opinion on any issue relating to, but not limited to— (a) the application of chapter six of the constitution; 
(b) the application of the Act or any other applicable law or regulations dealing with the ethics and integrity of State Officers; 
(c) the application of the Public Officer Ethics Act 2003, or any other law or regulations dealing with the ethics and integrity of public officers; 
(d) the application of this Code; 
(e) in ethical dilemma; or 
(d) any other matter incidental to the promotion of the ethics and integrity of State Officers and public officers generally. 
