5th July, 2019 THE KENYA GAZETTE 24.77 
GAZETTE NOTICE NO. 5973 
THE PHYSICAL PLANNING ACT 
(Cap. 286) 
COMPLETION OF PART DEVELOPMENT PLAN 
PDP No. KBU/967/19/01- Lari/Kirenga (Linenjeke)/3579 
(a) Existing Site for St. Charles Lwanga Catholic Church 
(b) Existing Site for Lari Technical Training and Vocational College NOTICE is given that preparation of the above-mentioned part development plan was completed. 
The part development plan relates to land situated within Lari Sub- county, Kiambu County. 
Copies of the part development plan have been deposited for public inspection at the offices of the County Physical Planning Headquarter at RedNova, Kiambu Town, Kiambu County, Lari Sub- county Administrator, Kimende and the Area Chief, Kirenga Ward. 
The copies so deposited are available for inspection free of charge by all persons interested at the offices of the County Physical Planning Headquarter at RedNova, Kiambu Town, Kiambu County, Lari Sub- county Administrator, Kimende and the Area Chief, Kirenga Ward, between the hours of 8.00 a.m. and 5.00 p.m ., Monday to Friday. 
Any interested person(s) who wishes to make any representation in connection with or objection to the above-named part development plan may send such representations or objections in writing to be received by the County Director of Physical Planning, P.O. Box 2344- 00900, Kiambu, within sixty (60) days from the date of publication of this notice and any such representation or objection shall state the grounds on which it is made. 
Dated the 23rd May, 2019. 
JANE WANJIKU MWANIKI, 
MR/6508423. for Director of Physical Planning. GAZETTE NOTICE NO. 5974 
THE ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT AND 
CO-ORDINATION ACT 
(No. 8 of 1999) 
THE NATIONAL ENVIRONMENT MANAGEMENT 
AUTHORITY 
ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT STUDY REPORT FOR THE PROPOSED CONSTRUCTION OF A 
CARDIOTHORACIC CENTRE FOR TENWEK HOSPITAL ON PLOT L.R: NO. KERICHO/SILIBWET/3395 IN BOMET COUNTY INVITATION OF PUBLIC COMMENTS 
Pursuant to Regulation 21 of the Environmental Management and Co-ordination (Impact Assessment and Audit) Regulations, 2003, the National Environment Management Authority (NEMA) has received an Environmental Impact Assessment Study Report for the above proposed project. 
The proponent, Tenwek Hospital, is proposing to develop a four storey cardiothoracic centre comprising of. 2No. basements, parking, mortuary, biohazard storage area, supply area, water tanks, power distribution room, offices, workshops, laundry area, laboratories, blood bank, pharmacy, wards, theatres, classrooms, conference centre, offices, ICU, HDU area, heart theatres, penthouse mechanical room and associated facilities . and amenities on plot L.R N Kericho/Silibwet/3395 in Bomet County. 
The following are the anticipated impacts and proposed mitigation measures: 
Impacts Proposed Mitigation Measures 
Air quality' Downwash of trucks (especially tyres) prior to departure from site. 
Cover stockpiles of sand, soil and similar materials or surround them with wind breaks. 
Post signs that limit vehicles speed onto unpaved roads and over disturbed soils. 
24.77 
Impacts Proposed Mitigation Measures 
Avoid excavation works in extremely dry weathers. 
Sprinkle water on access routes when necessary to reduce dust generation, by construction vehicles. 
Personal protective equipment to be worn. Vehicle idling time shall be minimized. 
Sensitize truck drivers to avoid unnecessary racing of vehicle engines at loading/offloading points and parking areas, and to switch off vehicle engines at these points. 
Demand for raw Building materials such as sand ballast, hard material core are extracted from registered quarry and sand mining firms whose facilities have undergone satisfactory environmental impact assessment/audit and received NEMA approval, 
Source building materials from local suppliers who use environmentally friendly processes in their operations. 
Ensure accurate budgeting and estimation of actual construction material requirements to ensure that the least amount of material necessary is ordered. 
Ensure that damage or loss of materials at the construction site is kept minimal through proper storage .. 
Consider reuse of building materials and use of recycled building materials. 
Liquid waste Expand the effluent discharge treatment management. plant .. 
Provision of storm water drains. 
Proper decommissioning of waste water and sewerage system. 
Proper maintenance of the drainage system. Solid waste Order materials in the sizes and quantities management they will be needed. 
Damaged or wasted construction materials to be recovered for refurbishing and use in other projects. 
Use of durable, long-lasting materials to reduce the amount of construction waste generated over time. 
Use building materials that have minimal or no packaging. 
Waste collection bins to be provided at designated points on site. 
Noise and excessive . .. Install portable barriers to shield vibrations compressors and other small stationery equipment where necessary. 
working hours will be restricted to daytime only. 
Restricted transport .hours and noise buffering. 
Use - quiet equipment (i.e. equipment designed with noise control elements). 
Sensitize construction vehicle drivers and machinery operators to switch off engines of vehicles or machinery not being used. 
Sensitize construction drivers to avoid gunning of vehicle engines or hooting especially when passing through sensitive areas. 
