28282828 THE KENYA GAZETTE 10th August, 2018 from amongst themselves, a Chairperson and a vice-chairperson, who shall be of opposite gender. 
4.5.2 The Chairperson and vice-chairperson of the Board shall hold office for a term of five (5) years. 
4.6 Powers and Functions of the Chairperson and Vice-Chairperson 4.6.1 The Chairperson of the Board shall— 
(a) be the head of the Board; 
(b) chair the meetings of the Board; and 
(c) perform such other duties as may be delegated by the Board. 
4.6.2 The Vice-Chairperson shall, in the absence of the Chairperson, perform the functions of the Chairperson and shall perform such other functions as may be delegated by the Chairperson. 
4.7 Removal from Office 
4.7.1 A person may be removed from the office of chairperson, vice chairperson or a member of the Board on any of the following grounds— 
(a) by the Board, supported by the vote of at least two-thirds of the members of the board; or 
(b) upon petition by the residents of the Municipality. 
(c) is unable to perform the functions of the office by reason of mental or physical infirmity; 
(d) is declared or becomes bankrupt or insolvent; 
(e) without reasonable cause, the member is absent from three (3) consecutive meetings of the Board within one (1) financial year; 
(f) is found guilty of professional misconduct by the relevant professional body; 
(g) is disqualified from holding a public office under the Constitution; 
(h) is convicted of an offence and is sentenced to imprisonment for a term of six (6) months or more; 
(i) in any particular case, the member fails to declare his or her interest in any matter being considered or to be considered by the Board; or 
(j) engages in any gross misconduct. 
4.7.2 The procedure for the removal or petition for removal of a chairperson or vice chairperson shall be provided for by regulations under the Urban Areas and Cities Act, 2011, and in the absence thereof in accordance with Kenyan law having regard to fair labour practices. 
4.7.3 A vacancy in the office of a chairperson, vice chairperson or a member of the board shall, be filled in accordance with provisions of this Charter. 
4.8 Secretary of the Board of the Municipality 
4.8.1 The Municipal manager shall be the secretary to the board of the municipality. 
4.9 Committees of the Board of the Municipality 
4.9.1 The Board of the Municipality may— 
(a) establish such Committees for any general or special purpose which, in its opinion, would regulate or manage its affairs more efficiently and as may be necessary for the performance of its functions under the Urban Areas and Cities Act, 2011; (b) delegate to such Committee such functions as are necessary for the efficient performance of its duties in respect to the whole or any part of the area under the jurisdiction of the Board; and 
(c) include persons who are not members of the Board in any Committee. 
4.9.2 The Committees of the Board to which members of the Board delegates any of their powers and functions must follow procedures which are based, as a far as they are applicable, on 10th August, 2018 the provision of this Charter which govern the making of decisions and performance of functions by the Board. 
4.10 Remuneration of the Members of the Board 
4.10.1 The chairperson, vice chairperson and members of a Board shall not receive a salary from the Board but shall be paid such allowances and benefits as the County Executive Committee shall, with the approval of the County Assembly, and on the advice of the Salaries and Remuneration Commission, determine. 
4.11 Ordinary and Special Meetings of the Board 
4.11.1 The Board shall hold its sittings to transact the business of the Board once every three (3) months. 
4.11.2 Notwithstanding Article 4.11.1., the Chairperson of the Board may, and upon request in writing by at least one-third of the members of the Board, convene a special meeting to transact any urgent business of the Board. 
4.11.3 All regular meetings of the Board called for the purpose of transacting public business, where a majority of the members elected are present, shall be open to the public. 
4.11.4 The Board shall have the privilege of holding executive sessions from which the public is excluded but no legislative proposal, resolutions, rules or regulations shall be finally adopted at such an executive session. 
4.12 Quorum 
4.12.1 A majority of the members of the Board is a quorum to conduct business, but a smaller number may meet and compel attendance of absent members as prescribed by the Board’s Rules. 
4.12.2 A member of the Board who is interested in any discussions or decision-making regarding any subject or transaction under consideration by the Board, shall not be counted as participating in the discussions or decision–making, and is not entitled to vote on, or agree to the subject or transaction relating to it. 
4.12.3 If it comes to the knowledge of an officer employed by a Board that a bargain, contract or arrangement in which he or she has any direct or indirect pecuniary interest (other than a bargain, contract or arrangement to which he or she is a party) has been or is proposed to be made or entered into by the Board, that officer shall as soon as practicable give notice in writing to the Board disclosing the fact that he or she has interest therein. 
4.13 Rules of the Board 
4.13.1 The Board shall by resolution adopt rules to govern its meetings. 
4.14 Record of Information of the Board 
4.14.1 The minutes and other information of the Board shall be kept by the Secretary of the Board. 
4.14.2 Access to information on the activities and resolutions of the Board shall be as provided under the Urban Areas and Cities Act, 2011. 
4.15 Citizen Fora 
4.15.1 The Board shall ensure the development of mechanisms for the participation of the residents of the Municipality in the management and administration thereof. 
4.15.2 All recommendations from the Citizen Fora of the Municipality shall be forwarded to the Board for deliberation. 
4.15.3 All recommendations on issues raised in the Citizen Fora and addressed and/or resolved by the Board shall be forwarded to the Municipal Manager for implementation. 
4.15.4 Without prejudice to the foregoing, residents of the Municipality may― 
(a) deliberate and make proposals to the relevant bodies or institutions on— 
(i) the provision of services; 
