146146217 THE KENYA GAZETTE 19th January, 2018 
carefully budgeted and to ensure that the amount of construction materials left on site after construction is kept minimal.  Avoid mixing of excess concrete if possible, and discard excess concrete in a designated area away from water courses. 
 Washing of concrete coated vehicles or equipment to be done off-site or in a designated wash area a minimum of 50 feet away from drainage channels. 
 Runoff from the on-site concrete wash area to be contained in a temporary pit where the concrete can set. 
 The temporary pit to be lined with plastic or clay to prevent seepage of the wash water into the ground. The wash water should be allowed to evaporate or collected along with all concrete debris in a concrete washout system bin. 
 Strict adherence to provisions of Waste Management Regulations, 2006. 
Noise and Vibrations  Portable hoods to be installed to shield compressors and other small stationary equipment where necessary. 
 Pumps, generators and other mobile equipment to be sited as far as practicable from housing and other noise sensitive locations. 
 The contractor to endeavor to use equipment installed with noise abatement devices as much as practicable. 
 Idling time on trucks and other noisy equipment to be limited to a minimum.  Personal protective equipment such as ear muffs will be provided to workers at the sites as necessary. 
 Comply with the provisions of Noise and excessive Vibration Pollution Control Regulations of 2009. 
Air Quality  Maintenance of equipment and machinery to by regular servicing to maintain efficiency in combustion and reduce carbon emissions. 
 Use environmentally friendly fuels such as low sulphur diesel. 
 Minimize idling of machinery. 
 Ensure no burning of waste on sites/non- designated areas. 
 Sprinkling of all active construction areas as and when necessary. 
 Control of construction vehicle speeds by imposition of speed limits. 
 Immediate backfilling of trenches and rehabilitation of disturbed areas once completed. 
 Use of tarpaulins to cover trucks carting away spoil using public roads. 
 Proper planning in transportation of spoil to ensure that the number of trips done or the number of vehicles used is as minimum as possible. 
 Provision of appropriate Personnel Protective Equipment such as dust masks to site workers. 
 Adherence to Air Quality Regulations, 2014. 
Traffic  Development and implementation of a traffic management plan. 
19th January, 2018 
Land acquisition  Cash compensation based on market value of land or provide with option of replacement land within the village if available of equivalent size and quality.  Cash compensation to be provided for lost agricultural productivity during the construction period. 
 Reinstatement of land to a least the condition it was in prior to construction. Occupational Health and  Provision of all workers on site with the Safety necessary Personal Protective Equipment. 
 Ensuring a safe and healthy environment for the construction workers. 
 Workers accidents to be mitigated by enforcing adherence to safety procedures and preparing contingency plans for accident response. 
 Safety education and training to be emphasized. 
 The Contractor to have qualified first aid personnel among the workers and maintain fully stocked first aid kits at the sites. 
 Hazards and accidents involving the public to be minimized by controlling access to the construction sites. 
 Contractor to lay pipes and backfill as soon as possible to reduce hazards exposure to the public such as open trenches. 
 Contractor to ensure that workers have access to sanitary facilities at the sites and provide potable water. 
 Comply with the provisions of OSHA 2007. 
The full report of the proposed project is available for inspection during working hours at: 
(a)Director-General, NEMA, Popo Road, off Mombasa Road, P.O. Box 67839–00200,Nairobi. 
(b) Principal Secretary, Ministry of Environment and Mineral Resources, NHIF Building, Community, P.O. Box 30126- 00100, Nairobi. 
(c) County Director of Environment, Uasin Gishu County. 
(d) County Director of Environment, Kakamega County. 
The National Environment Management Authority invites members of the public to submit oral or written comments within thirty (30) days from the date of publication of this notice to the Director-General, NEMA, to assist the Authority in the decision making process of the plan. 
GEOFFREY WAHUNGU, 
for Director-General, MR/4121611 National Environment Management Authority. GAZETTE NOTICE NO. 504 
NATIONAL CEREALS AND PRODUCE BOARD 
DISPOSAL OF UNCOLLECTED GOODS 
NOTICE is given pursuant to the provisions of Section 5 of Uncollected Goods Act (Cap. 38) of laws of Kenya, to the owners of the following assorted items to take delivery of the items from the mentioned depots within thirty (30) days from the date of publication of this notice, upon payment of storage charges and other related and accrued charges, failure to which the said items shall be sold by public auction or private treaty and proceeds of sale be defrayed against all accrued charges without any reference to the owners. 
Chavakali Depot—2 cupboards, 6 chairs, 1 table. 
