2nd September, 2016 THE KENYA GAZETTE 3639 
Performance of duties 
9. A State Officer shall, to the best of his or her ability -- 
(a) carry out the duties of the office efficiently and honestly; 
(b) carry out the duties of the office in a transparent and accountable manner; 
(c) keep accurate records and documents relating to the functions of the office; and 
(d) report truthfully on all matters of the office. 
Professionalism 
10. A State Officer shall -- 
(a) carry out the duties of his or her office in a manner that maintains public confidence in the integrity of the office; 
(b) treat members of the public, staff and other state and public officers with courtesy and respect; 
) to the extent appropriate to the office, maintain high standards of performance and level of professionalism within the office and; - 
(d) if the State Officer is a member of a professional body, observe and subscribe to the ethical and professional requirements of that body in so far as the requirements do not. contravene the Constitution, any other law or this Code. 
Confidentiality 
11. A State Officer shall subject to Article 35 of the Constitution and any other relevant law, a State Officer shall not disclose or cause to be disclosed any information in his or her custody to any unauthorized person. 
Financial integrity 
12. (1) A State Officer shall not use his or her office to unlawfully or wrong fully enrich himself or herself or any other person. 
(2) Subject to article 76(2) (b) of the Constitution a State Officer shall not accept a personal loan or benefit which may compromise the State Officer in carrying out his or her duties. 
(3) a State Officer shall submit an initial declaration of income, assets and liabilities within thirty days of assuming office and thereafter make biennial declarations to the office, and a final declaration within (30) days of ceasing to be a State Officer. 
(4) The Declaration under sub-paragraph (3) shall be submitted to the County Public Service Board. 
(5) A declaration filed by a State Officer in accordance with the provisions of sub-paragraph (3) shall be accessible to the Commission . and any other person, subject to the provisions of Section 30 of the Public Officer Ethics Act, 2003. 
(6) A State Officer shall pay any taxes, loans or other debts due from him within the prescribed period. 
(7) A State Officer shall not neglect their financial or legal obligations. 
Moral and ethical requirements 
13. (1) A State Officer shall observe and maintain the following ethical and moral requirements- 
(a) demonstrate honesty in the conduct of his or her public and private affairs; 
(b) not to engage in activities that amount to abuse of office; 
(c) accurately and honesty represent information to the public; 
(d) not engage in wrongful conduct in furtherance of personal benefit; 
(e) not misuse public resources; 
(f) not falsify any records; 
(g) not sexually harass or have inappropriate sexual relations with other State Officers, staff of the office or any other person; 
(h) not engage in actions which would lead to the State Officers removal from the membership of a professional body in accordance with the law; 
3639 
(i) not commit offences and in particular, any of the offences under parts XV and XVI of the Penal Code, Sexual offences act, 2006, the Counter- Trafficking in Persons Act, 2008, and the Children Act; 
(j) not engage in fighting or physical confrontation with any person; 
(k) maintain high standards of etiquette at all times. 
(2) A person who wishes to be appointed the Office shall for the purposes of this Code, submit to the Commission a self-declaration in the form set out in the First Schedule to the Act. 
(3) In respect to a person wishing to be elected to the office, the Declaration under sub-paragraph (2) shall be submitted to the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission. 
(4) A state officer shall maintain high standards of etiquette at all times. 
Gifts or benefits in kind 
14. (1) A gift or donation given to a State Officer on a public or official occasion shall be treated as a gift of donation to the office. 
(2) Notwithstanding subparagraph (1) a State Officer may receive a gift given to the State Officer in official capacity, provided that- 
(e) the gift is within the ordinary bounds of propriety, a usual expression of courtesy or protocol and within the ordinary standards of hospitality; 
(f) the gift is not monetary; 
(8) the gift does not exceed the value of Kenya Shillings twenty thousand or such other amount as may be prescribed by the Commission through Regulations. 
(3.) A State Officer shall not- 
(I) Accept or solicit gifts, hospitality or other benefits from a person who- 
(i) has an interest in any matter under consideration by the Office; 
(ii) has a contractual relationship with the office; 
(iii) has any interest that is directly or indirectly connected with the State Officers duties; 
(b) receive a gift which has the potential of compromising his or her integrity, objectivity or impartiality; or 
(c) accept any type of gift expressly prohibited under the Act. 
(4) A State Officer who receives a gift or donation shall declare the gift or donation to the Authorized Officer within seven days of receipt of the gift. 
(5) The Office shall maintain a register of all gifts received by the state Officers serving in the Office and another register of all gifts given by the office to other State or Public Officers. 
Wrongful or unlawful acquisition of property 
15. A State Officer shall- not use the office to wrongfully or unlawfully acquire or influence the acquisition of public or, other property. 
Conflict of interest 
16. (1) A State Officer shall use the best efforts to avoid being in a conflict of interest a situation where his or her personal interests conflict or appear to conflict with the State Officers official duties. 
(2) Without limiting the generality of subparagraph (1) a State Officer shall not hold shares or have any other interest in a corporation, partnership or other body, directly or through another person, if holding those shares or having that interest would result in a conflict of the State Officers and the officers official duties. 
(3) A State Officer whose personal interest's conflict with their official duties shall declare the personal interest to the office. 
(4) The Office may give directions on the appropriate action to the taken by the State Officer to avoid the conflict of interest and the State Officer shall comply with the directions, and refrain from participating in any deliberations with respect to the matter. 
