2nd September, 2016 THE KENYA GAZETTE 3617 Parliament 
Ministry in 
charge of Land 
County 
Governments 
County Land 
Management 
Boards 
Other Gok 
Agencies 
PPPs (NGOs, CBOS, 
FBOs, Companies) 
Policy Coord/Linkages 
Key 
Direct Linkage - 3.2 Roles and Responsibilities 
In the development and operation of the NLIMS, different institutions shall be responsible as follows: 
1. Ministry responsible for land 
(i) Develop policies on land upon recommendation by the Commission. 
(ii) Facilitate the implementation of land policies and reforms. 
(iii) Coordinate the management of the National Spatial Data Infrastructure. 
(iv) Monitor and evaluate land sector performance. 
(v) Ensure engagement with National and . County Governments, ministries and institutions dealing with land information. 
(vi) Ensure inter-operability of data at both national and international levels. 
(vii) Generate and manage spatial data across its departments. (viii) Contribute, provide access and share land information with NLIMS. 
(ix) Regulate the operation of professional bodies dealing with land information. 
(x) Awareness creation and capacity building on land information to land sector stakeholders. 
2. Legislative Assemblies 
(i) Enact and amend laws and regulations related to land in consultation with all stakeholders. 
(ii) Facilitate good governance on issues on land. 
3617 Supreme Court 
Land Settlement 
Court of Appeal 
Fund 
Community Land 
Env. & Land 
Management · 
Committees Court 
Land tribunals 
ADRS & TDRS 
Access to Justice 
Operation Linkage 
(iii) Act as an advisor to the public and other institutions. 
(iv) Adopt policies related to land information. 
(v) Allocate adequate funds, to enable optimal performance of NLIMS. 
3. National Land Commission 
(i) Develop, implement and maintain an efficient and effective land information management system at both national and county levels. 
(ii) Develop and maintain a secure, available, accessible primary and recovery data centres for NLIMS. 
(iii) Co-ordinate the development of NLIMS standards and guidelines and advise the respective players. 
(iv) Keep a comprehensive inventory of all standards, procedures and processes in regard to land information. (v) Generate and maintain land information for NLIMS as mandated and in line with NLIMS standards and guidelines. 
(vi) Advice, in collaboration with institutions of higher learning and other stakeholders, the development of human resource capacity in LIMS. 
(vii) Develop and implement a monitoring and evaluation framework for NLIMS. 
(viii) Initiate and coordinate enactment of a land information law and miscellaneous amendments to facilitate access to, sharing and management of land information. 
(ix) Put in place dispute resolution mechanisms for arbitration between various players in regard to NLIMS. 