3630 THE KENYA GAZETTE 2nd September, 2016 "Accounting Officer" means the County Secretary of the County Government; 
"Authorized Officer" means the Governor of the County of Embu and includes his/her designate; 
"Bank Account" has the meaning assigned to it under section 2 of the Act; 
"Code" means the Leadership and Integrity Code for State Officers in the County Executive of Embu County Government; 
"Commission" means the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission established under section 3 of the Ethics and Anti-corruption commission Act, No. 22 of 2011; 
"Gazette" means the Kenya Gazette; 
"His" includes the expression "her"; 
"Office" means the office the County Executive of Embu; 
"Personal Interest" means a matter in which a State Officer has a direct or indirect pecuniary or non-pecuniary interest and includes the interest of this or her spouse, child, business associate or agent; 
"Public Officer" has the meaning assigned to it under Article 260 of the Constitution; 
"Regulations" means the Regulations made by the Ethics and Anti- Corruption commission pursuant to section 54 of the Act; 
"Serving State Officer", means a State Officer who is in office at the time of commencement of this Code; 
"State Officer" means a Member of the County Executive of Embu County Government; 
Application of the Constitution, Integrity Act and the Public Officer Ethics Act, 2003 
3. (1) The provisions of Chapter Six of the Constitution, the Leadership and Integrity Act, the Public Officer Ethics Act 2003 and shall form part of the Code. 
(2) This Code applies to all state officers in the County Executive of Embu County Government. 
4. (1) A State Officer elected or appointed to the County Executive shall sign and commit to this Code at the time of taking oath of office or within seven days of assuming office. 
(2) A serving State Officer shall sign and commit to this Code within seven days of the publication of the Code in the Gazette. 
(3) The declaration of commitment to the Code shall take the form and structure set out in the First Schedule to this Code. 
PART III-REQUIREMENT 
Rule of Law 
5. (1) A State Officer shall respect and abide by the Constitution and all other laws. 
(2) A State Officer shall carry out the duties of his or her office in accordance with the law. 
(3) In carrying out the duties of his or her office, a State Officer shall not violate the rights and fundamental freedoms of any person. 
Public interest 
6. A State Office is a position of public trust and the authority and responsibility vested in a State Officer shall be exercised by the State Officer in the best interest of the office and the people of Kenya. 
Responsibilities and Duties 
7. Subject to the constitution and any other law, a State Officer shall take personal responsibility for the reasonably foreseeable consequences of any actions or omissions arising from the discharge of the duties of his or her office. 
Citizenship 
8. (1) Subject to Article 78(3) of the Constitution, a State officer who acquires dual citizenship shall lose his or her position as a State officer. 
(2) A person who holds dual citizenship shall, upon election or appointment to a State office, not take office before officially 2nd September, 2016 renouncing their other citizenship in accordance with the provisions of the Kenya Citizenship and Immigration Act, 2011, (No. 12 of 2011). Performance of duties 
9. A State Officer shall, to the best of his or her ability - 
(a) carry out the duties of the office efficiently and honestly; 
( b) carry out the duties of the office in a transparent and accountable manner; 
(c) keep accurate records and documents relating to the functions of the office; and 
(d) report truthfully on all matters of the office. 
Professionalism 
10. A State Officer shall - 
(a) carry out the duties of his or her office in a manner that maintains public confidence in the integrity of the office; 
(b) treat members of the public, staff and other state and public officers with courtesy and respect; 
(c) to the extent appropriate to the office, maintain high standards of performance and level of professionalism within the office; and 
(d) if the State Officer is a member of a professional body, observe and subscribe to the ethical and professional requirements of that body in so far as the requirements do not contravene the Constitution, any other law or this Code. 
Confidentiality 
11. A State Officer shall- 
Subject to Article 35 of the Constitution and any other relevant law, not disclose or cause to be disclosed any information in his or her custody to any unauthorized person. 
Financial integrity 
12. (1) A State Officer shall not use his or her office to unlawfully or wrongfully enrich himself or herself or any other person. 
(2) Subject to article 76(2) (b) of the Constitution a State Officer shall not accept a personal loan or benefit which may compromise the State Officer in carrying out his or her duties. 
(3) a State Officer shall submit an initial declaration of income, assets and liabilities within thirty days of assuming office and thereafter make biennial declarations to the office, and a final declaration within (30) days of ceasing to be a State Officer. 
(4) The Declaration under sub-paragraph (3) shall be submitted to the County Public Service Board. 
(5) A declaration filed by a State Officer in accordance with the provisions of sub-paragraph (3) shall be accessible to the Commission and any other person, subject to the provisions of Section 30 of the Public Officer Ethics Act, 2003. 
(6) A State Officer shall pay any taxes, loans or other debts due from him within the prescribed period. 
(7) A State Officer shall not neglect their financial or legal obligations. 
Moral and ethical integrity 
13. A State Officer shall observe and maintain the following ethical and moral requirements -- 
(a) demonstrate honesty in the conduct of his or her public and private affairs; 
(b) not to engage in activities that amount to abuse of office; 
(c) accurately and honesty represent information to the public; (d) not engage in wrongful conduct in furtherance of personal benefit; 
(e) not misuse public resources; 
(f) not falsify any records; 
(8) not sexually harass or have inappropriate sexual relations with other State Officers, staff of the office or any other person; 
( h) not engage in actions which would lead to the State Officers removal from the membership of a professional body in accordance with the law; 
