3642 THE KENYA GAZETTE 2nd September, 2016 Duty of authorized officer and accounting officer to comply with directives of the Commission in implementation of the Code 
44. The Authorized Officer or Accounting Officer of the Office shall at all times comply with such orders or directives as may be issued by the Commission from time to time towards the implementation of this Code. 
PART IV-GENERAL PROVISIONS 
Advisory opinion 
45. A State Officer or the office may request the Commission to give an advisory opinion on any issue relating to, but not limited to - 
(a) the application of Chapter Six of the Constitution; 
(b) the application of the Act or any other applicable law or regulations dealing with the ethics and integrity of State Officers; 
(c) the application of the Public Officer Ethics Act 2003, or any other law or regulations dealing with the ethics and integrity of public officers; 
(d) the application of this Code; 
(e) an ethical dilemma; or 
(f) any other matter incidental to the promotion of the ethics and integrity of State Officers and public officers generally. 
Training on Leadership and Integrity 
46. The office shall collaborate with the Commission to ensure that the State Officers and public officers serving in the Office are sensitized on leadership and integrity issues at least once a year. 
Personal responsibility for compliance 
47. Each State Officer shall take personal responsibility or compliance with the provisions of this Code. 
Annual Report 
48. The Authorized Office or his designate shall cause to be prepared and submitted to the Commission an Annual Report on the progress made in implementation and enforcement of the Code in a prescribed format by the Commission. 
Amendment of the Code 
49. The Office may with approval of the Commission amend this Code. 
FIRST SCHEDULE (Para. 6(3)) COMMITMENT TO THE LEADERSHIP AND INTEGRITY CODE FOR STATE OFFICERS IN THE COUNTY 
I ........ ....... holder of National ID/Passport No .. ... and Post Office Box No. having been elected on appointed as . in the County Executive of Kisumu do hereby confirm that I have read and understood the Leadership and Integrity Code for State Officers in the County Executive of Kisumu and hereby solemnly declare and commit myself to abide by the provisions of the Code at all times. 
SIGNED at ... 
By the said 
Deponent 
This. .. day of .... 20. 
) 
Before Me ) 
Judge! Magistrate/ Commissioner for Oaths 
At ..... this .... .... day of .... .... 2016 SECRETARY/ CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER 
ETHICS AND ANTI-CORRUPTION COMMISSION 
MR/9721310 
2nd September, 2016 - GAZETTE NOTICE NO. 6982 
THE LEADERSHIP AND INTEGRITY ACT 
(No. 19 of2012) 
COUNTY EXECUTIVE OF MACHAKOS 
LEADERSHIP AND INTEGRITY CODE FOR STATE OFFICERS IN THE COUNTY EXECUTIVE OF MACHAKOS 
Preamble 
The Constitution of Kenya (2010) under Chapter Six provides for leadership and integrity for State Officers and in particular provides for responsibilities of leadership and the conduct of State Officers. 
PURSUANT to section 37 of the Leadership and Integrity Act, 2012, the County Executive Committee of Machakos establishes this Leadership and Integrity Code to be observed by and binding upon State Officers in the County Executive. 
This Code shall be read together with the Constitution (2010) and all applicable legislations and regulations on Leadership and Integrity. PARTI-STATEMENT OF INTENT 
This Leadership and Integrity Code for State Officers in the County Executive of Machakos is intended to provide standards of integrity and ethical conduct in the leadership and management of public affairs of the County Executive by ensuring that the State Officers respect the values, principles and provisions of the Constitution and other applicable laws or policies on the standards of conduct and performance expected of holders of public office in the discharge of their duties. 
PART II - PRELIMINARY 
Citation 
1. This Code may be cited as the Leadership and Integrity Code for State Officers in the County Executive of Machakos. 
Commencement 
2. This Code shall come into operation upon its publication in the Kenya Gazette. 
Interpretation 
3. In this Code, unless the context otherwise requires - 
"Act" means the Leadership and Integrity Act, 2012; [No. 19 of 2012]; 
"Accounting Officer" means the County Secretary of the County Government of Machakos; 
"Authorized Officer" means the County Secretary of the County Government of Machakos 
"Bank Account" means an account maintained by a Bank or any other financial institution as specified in the leadership and integrity Act 2012 . 
"Code" means the Leadership and Integrity Code for State Officers in the County Executive of Machakos; 
"County Assembly" means the County Assembly of Machakos; 
"County Public Service Board" means the Machakos County Public Service Board; 
"Commission" means the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission established under Section3 of the Ethics and Anti-corruption Commission Act, No. 22 of 2011; 
"Gazette" means the Kenya Gazette; 
"Office" means the Office of County Executive of Machakos; 
"Public Officer" means any state officer or any other person who holds a Public office as specified under Article 260 of the Constitution; 
interest" means a matter in which a State Officer has a direct or indirect pecuniary or non-pecuniary interest and includes the interest of his spouse, child, business associate or agent; 
"Regulations" mean the Regulations made by the Ethics and Anti- Corruption Commission pursuant to Section 54 of the Ethics and Anti- Corruption Commission Act, No. 22 of 2011; 
"State Officer" means a Member of the County Executive Committee of Machakos; 
