2nd September, 2016 THE KENYA GAZETTE 3645 
Misuse of official information 
22. (1) A State Officer shall not directly or indirectly use or allow any person under the State Officer's authority to use any information obtained through or in connection with the Office, which is not available in the public domain, for the furthering of any private interest, whether financial or otherwise. 
(2) A State Officer shall not be deemed to have violated the requirements of subparagraph (1), if the information given- 
(a) pursuant to a Court order; 
( b) for purposes of educational, research, literary, scientific or other purposes not prohibited by law; or 
(c) in compliance with Article 35 of the Constitution and the relevant law. 
Impartiality 
23. A State Officer shall, at all times, carry out the duties of the Office with impartiality and objectivity in accordance with principles and values set out in Articles 10, 27, 73 (2) (b) and 232 of the Constitution and shall not practice favouritism, nepotism, tribalism, cronyism, religious bias or engage in other preferential treatment of another State Officer, Public Officer or a member of the public 
Giving of advice 
24. A State Officer shall give honest, accurate and impartial advice without fear or favour. 
Offers of future employment 
25. (1)A State Officer shall not allow himself to be influenced in the performance of his duties by plans or expectations for or offers of future employment or benefits. 
(2) A State Officer shall disclose, in writing, to the County Secretary and Commission, all offers of future employment or benefits that could place the State Officer in a situation of conflict of interest. Engagement of Former State Officer 
26. A former State Officer shall not be engaged in a matter in which the State Officer was originally engaged in as a State Officer, for at least two years after leaving the Office. 
Misleading the public 
27. A State Officer shall not knowingly give false or misleading information to any person. 
Falsification of records 
28. A State Officer shall not falsify any records or misrepresent information to the public. 
Conduct of private affairs 
29. A State Officer shall conduct their private affairs in a manner that maintains public confidence in the integrity of the Office. 
Bullying 
30. (1) A State Officer shall not bully another State or Public Officer or any other person. 
(2) For purposes of subparagraph (1) "bullying" includes blackmail, coercion, threats, intimidation or repeated offensive behaviour which is vindictive, cruel, malicious or humiliating whether or not is intended to undermine a person and includes physical assault. Acting through others 
31. (1) A State Officer shall not- 
(a) cause anything to be done through another person that would constitute a contravention of this Code, the Constitution or any other law if done by the State Officer; or 
(b) allow or direct a person under their supervision or control to do anything that is in contravention of this Code, the Constitution or any other law. 
(2) Subparagraph (1) (b) shall not apply where anything is done without the State Officer's knowledge or consent or if the State Officer has taken reasonable steps to prevent it. 
Reporting improper orders 
32. (1) If a State Officer considers that anything required of him is in contravention of the Code or is otherwise improper or unethical, the State Officer shall report the matter to the Commission. 
3645 
(2) The Commission shall investigate the report and take appropriate action within ninety days of receiving the report. 
Duty to prevent occurrence of corruption or unethical practice in the Office 
33. A State Officer who believes or has reason to believe a corrupt act or unethical malpractice has occurred or is about to occur in the office shall take all necessary measures to prevent it from continuing or materializing in addition to any other appropriate action. Use of social media 
34. A State Officer shall not use social media in a manner that is prejudicial to public interest, national cohesion or otherwise constitutes a breach of any law. 
Dress code 
35. A State Officer shall maintain an appropriate standard of dress and personal hygiene at all times. 
Political and other influence 
6. (1) A State Officer shall exercise independence in the discharge of his duties and shall not allow himself to be subjected to political or any other internal or external influence that is detrimental to public interest. 
(2) A State Officer shall not influence or attempt to influence the decision of any other State or Public Officer or public entity on any matter. 
(2) A State Officer shall not in any way interfere with the duties of any other State Officer, Public Officer or public entity. 
Implementation of development projects 
37. (1) A State Officer shall exercise prudence in the undertaking of development projects and shall at all times prioritize projects that are most urgent for the public. 
(2) For the purposes of sub-paragraph (1), a State Officer shall, before planning for any project, to the extent applicable, undertake and facilitate public and stakeholder participation in the determination of the projects to be implemented at any given time. 
(3) A State Officer shall not undertake any project without prior planning or budgeting. 
(4) A State Officer shall not demand or accept any kickbacks, gifts, benefits or other favours from contractors. 
(5) A State Officer shall not compromise or abet comprising of standards of any project implemented for the office. 
(6) A State Officer shall, subject to the law, disclose all relevant information regarding any project to any person requiring such information. 
Preferential treatment 
38. A State Officer shall ensure equal and equitable distribution of resources to all persons and any section of the population in his area of jurisdiction and shall not confer any undue advantage to any person or section of the population. 
Victimization 
39. A State Officer shall not in any way victimize any other State Officer or Public Officer or any other person for any lawful action or omission. 
PART IV - ENFORCEMENT OF THE CODE 
Fraud and Investigation Department 
40. There shall be established in the County Public Service a Fraud and Investigation Department under the Office of the Governor. This department shall have the powers to investigate charge and suspend officers found to be in breach of the Code. 
Breach of the Code 
41. (1) Any person may lodge a complaint alleging a breach of this Code by a State Officer to the Office or to the Commission. 
(2) Breach of this Code amounts to misconduct for which the State Officer may be subjected to disciplinary proceedings including removal from office. 
(3) Where a Breach of this Code amounts to violation of the Constitution, the State Officer may be removed from the Office in accordance with the applicable laws. 
