3632 THE KENYA GAZETTE 2nd September, 2016 Bank accounts outside Kenya 
19. (1)Subject to Article 76(2) of the Constitution or any other written law, a State Officer shall not open or continue to operate a bank account outside Kenya without the approval of the Commission. (2) A State Officer who has reasonable grounds for opening or operating a bank account outside Kenya shall apply to the commission for approval to open or operate a bank account outside Kenya. 
(3) A State Officer who operates or controls the operation of a bank account outside Kenya shall submit statements of the account annually to the commission and authorize the commission to verify the statements and any other relevant information from the foreign financial institution in which the account is held. 
(4) Subject to subparagraph (1) and (2), a person who is appointed as a State Officer in the office and has a bank account outside Kenya shall, upon such appointment close the bank account within 3 months or such other period as the Commission may prescribe by notice in the Gazette. 
(5) Subject to subparagraph (4) a State Officer may open or continue to operate a bank account outside Kenya as may be authorized by the Commission in writing. 
Acting for foreigners 
20. (1)A State Officer shall not be an agent of, or further the interests of foreign govemment, organization or individual in a manger that may be detrimental to the security interests of Kenya, except when acting in the course of official duty. 
(2) For the purposes of this paragraph- 
(a) an individual is a foreigner if the individual is not a citizen of Kenya; and 
(b) an organization is foreign if it is established outside Kenya or is owned or controlled by a foreign government, organization or individual. 
Care of property 
21. (1) A State Officer shall take all reasonable steps to ensure that public property in his or her custody, possession or control is taken care of and is in good repair and Condition. 
(2) A State Officer shall not use public property, funds or services that are acquired in the course of or as a result of the official duties, for private activities of activities that are not related to the official work of the State Officer. 
(3) A State Officer shall return to the office all the public property in his or her custody, possession or control at the end of the election or contract term. 
(4) A State Officer who contravenes subparagraph (2) or (3) shall, in addition to any other penalties provided for under the Constitution, the Act or any other law, be personally liable for any loss or damage to the public property. 
Misuse of public information 
22. (1) A State Officer shall not directly or indirectly use or allow any person under the officers authority to use any Information obtained through or in connection with the office, which is not available in the public domain, for the furthering of any private interest, whether financial or otherwise. 
(2) A State Officer shall not be deemed to have violated the requirements of subparagraph (1), if the information given- 
(a) pursuant to a court order; 
(b) for purposes of educational, research, literary, scientific or other purposes not prohibited by law; or 
(c) in compliance with Article 35 of the Constitution and the relevant law. 
Impartiality 
23. (1) A State Officer shall, at all times, carry out the duties of the Office with impartiality and objectivity in accordance with principles and values set out in Articles 10, 27, 73 (2)(b) and 232 of the Constitution and shall not practice favouritism, nepotism, tribalism, cronyism, religious bias or engage in other preferential treatment of another State Officer, Public Officer or a member of the public. 
2nd September, 2016 Giving advice 
24. A State Officer who has a duty to give advice shall give honest, accurate and impartial advice without fear or favour. 
Officers of future employment 
25. (1) A State Officer shall not allow himself of herself to be influenced in the performance of his or her duties by plans or expectations for or offers of future employment or benefits. 
(2) A State Officer shall disclose, in writing, to the Commission, all offers of future employment or benefits that could place the State Officer in a situation of conflict of interest. 
Former state officers acting in government or office 
26. A former State Officer shall not be engaged by the Office in a matter in which the State Officer was originally engaged in as a State Officer, for at least two years after leaving the office. 
Misleading the public 
27. A State Officer shall not knowingly give false or misleading information to any person. 
Falfication of records 
28. A State Officer shall not falsify any records or misrepresent information to the public. 
Conduct of private affairs 
29. A State Officer shall conduct their private affairs in a manner that maintains public confidence in the integrity of the Office. 
Bullying 
30. (1) A State Officer shall not bully another State or Public Officer or any other person. 
(2) For purposes of subparagraph (1) "bullying" includes blackmail, coercion, threats, intimidation or repeated offensive behaviour which is vindictive, cruel, malicious or humiliating whether or not is intended to undermine a person and includes physical assault. Acting through others 
31. (1) A State Officer shall not- 
(a) cause anything to be done through another person that would constitute a contravention of this Code, the Constitution or any other law if done by the State Officer; or 
(b) allow or direct a person under their supervision or control to do anything that is in contravention of this Code, the Constitution or any other law. 
(2) Subparagraph (1) (b) shall not apply where anything is done without the State Officer's knowledge or consent or if the State Officer has taken reasonable steps to prevent it. 
Reporting improper orders 
32. If a State Officer considers that anything required of him or her is in contravention of the Code or is otherwise improper or unethical, the State Officer shall report the matter to the Commission. 
(2) The Commission shall investigate the report and take appropriate action within ninety days of receiving the report. 
Duty to prevent occurrence of corruption of unethical practice in the office 
33. A State Officer who believes or has reason to believe corrupt act or unethical malpractice has occurred or is about to occur in the office shall take all necessary measures to prevent it from continuing or materializing in addition to any other appropriate action. 
Use of social media 
34. A State Officer shall not use social media in a manner that is prejudicial to public interest, national cohesion or that otherwise constitutes a breach of any law. 
Dress code 
35. A State Officer shall maintain appropriate standard of dress and personal hygiene at all times. 
Political and other influence 
36. (1) A State Officer shall exercise independence in the discharge of his duties and shall not allow himself to be subjected to political or any other intemal or external influence that is detrimental to public interest. 
