3638 THE KENYA GAZETTE 2nd September, 2016 No. having been elected as in the County Assembly of Kwale do hereby confirm that I have read and understood the Leadership and Integrity Code for State Officers in the County Assembly of Kwale and hereby solemnly declare and commit myself to abide by the provisions of the Code at all times. 
SIGNED at . 
By the said 
Deponent This ... .. day of .. .. 20 .. 
Before Me 
...... 
Judge/ Magistrate/ Commissioner for Oaths 
FORM J (r. 35(2)) PRESCRIBED for the State Officers in the County Assembly of Kwale in accordance with the provisions of section 37 of the Leadership and Integrity Act, 2012. 
At. . this. .day of .. 2016 ........................................................................................ 
SPEAKER OF THE COUNTY ASSEMBLY OF KWALE 
APPROVED by the Ethics and Anti-corruption commission, in accordance with the provisions of section 39 of the Leadership and Integrity Act, 2012. 
At .. .this . day of . 2016 ......................................... 
SECRETARY/ CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER 
ETHICS AND ANTI-CORRUPTION COMMISSION 
MR/9672093 
GAZETTE NOTICE NO. 6981 
THE LEADERSHIP AND INTEGRITY ACT 
(No. 19 of 2012) 
COUNTY GOVERNMENT OF KISUMU 
LEADERSHIP AND INTEGRITY CODE FOR STATE OFFICERS IN THE 
COUNTY EXECUTIVE OF KISUMU 
PURSUANT to section_37 of the Leadership and Integrity Act, 2012, the County Executive of Kisumu establishes this Leadership and Integrity Code to be observed by and binding upon State Officers in the County Executive. 
PARTI-STATEMENT OF INTENT 
A Leadership and Integrity Code for State Officers in the County Executive of Kisumu made pursuant to the provisions of section 37 of the Leadership and Integrity Act, 2012 and to give effect to Chapter Six of the Constitution of Kenya. The Code is intended to establish standards of integrity and ethical conduct in the leadership and management of public affairs of the County Executive by ensuring that the State Officers respect the values, principles and provisions of the Constitution and other applicable laws or policies on the standards of conduct and performance expected of holders of public office in the discharge of their duties. 
PART II-PRELIMINARY PROVISIONS 
Citation 
1. This Code may be cited as the Leadership and Integrity Code for State Officers in the County Executive of Kisumu. 
Commencement 
2. This Code shall come into operation upon its publication in the Kenya Gazette. 
2nd September, 2016 Interpretation 
3. In this Code, unless the context otherwise requires- 
"Act" means the Leadership and Integrity Act, 2012; [No. 19 of 2012]; 
"Accounting Officer" means the County Secretary of the County Government; 
"Authorized Officer" means the Governor of the County of Kisumu and includes his/her designate; 
"Bank Account" has the meaning assigned to it under section 2 of the Act; 
"Code" means the Leadership and Integrity Code for State Officers in the County Executive of Kisumu; 
"Commission" means the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission established under section 3 of the Ethics and Anti-corruption commission Act, No. 22 of 2011; 
"Gazette" means the Kenya Gazette; 
"His" includes the expression "her"; 
"Office" means the office the County Executive of Kisumu; 
"Personal Interest" means a matter in which a State Officer has a direct or indirect pecuniary or non-pecuniary interest and includes the interest of this or her spouse, child, business associate or agent; 
"Public Officer" has the meaning assigned to it under Article 260 of the Constitution; 
"Regulations" means the Regulations made by the Ethics and Anti- Corruption Commission pursuant to section 54 of the Act; 
"Serving State Officer" means a State Officer who is in office at the time of commencement of this Code; 
"State Officer" means a Member of the County Executive of Kisumu and in this context it means the Governor, Deputy Governor and the County Executive Committee Members; 
Application of Chapter Six of the Constitution, the Leadership and Integrity Act, 2012 and the Public Officer Ethics Act, 2003 
4. (1) The provisions of Chapter Six of the Constitution, the Leadership and Integrity Act, the Public Officer Ethics Act, 2003 and shall form part of the Code. 
Commitment to the Code 
5. (1) A State Officer elected or appointed to the County Executive shall sign and commit to this Code at the time of taking oath of office or within seven days of assuming office. 
(2) A serving State Officer shall sign and commit to this Code within seven days of the publication of the Code in the Gazette. 
(3) The declaration of commitment to the Code shall take the form and structure set out in the First Schedule to this Code. 
PART II-REQUIREMENTS 
Rule of law 
6. (1) A State Officer shall respect and abide by the Constitution and all other laws. 
(2) A State Officer shall carry out the duties of his or her office in accordance with the law. 
(3) In carrying out the duties of his or her office, a State Officer shall not violate the rights and fundamental freedoms of any person. 
Public trust 
7. A State Office is a position of public trust and the authority and responsibility vested in a State Officer shall be exercised by the State Officer in the best interest of the office and the people of Kenya. 
Responsibility and duties 
8. Subject to the Constitution and any other law, a State Officer shall take personal responsibility for the reasonably foreseeable consequences of any actions or omissions arising from the discharge of the duties of his or her office. 
