2nd September, 2016 THE KENYA GAZETTE 3635 
(4) The Declaration under sub-paragraph (3) shall be submitted to the County Assembly Service Board. 
(5) A declaration filed by a State Officer in accordance with the provisions of sub-paragraph (3) shall be accessible to the Commission and any other person, subject to the provisions of Section 30 of the Public Officer Ethics Act, 2003. 
(6) A State Officer shall pay any taxes, loans or other debts due from him within the prescribed period. 
(7) A State Officer shall not neglect their financial, family or other legal obligations. 
Moral and ethical requirements 
12. (1) A State Officer shall observe and maintain the following ethical and moral requirements- 
(a) demonstrate honesty in the conduct of his or her public and private affairs; 
(b) not to engage in activities that amount to abuse of office; 
(c) accurately and honesty represent information to the public; 
(d) not engage in wrongful conduct in furtherance of personal benefit; 
(e) not misuse public resources; 
(f) not falsify any records; 
(8) not sexually harass or have inappropriate sexual relations with other State Officers, staff of the office or any other person; 
(h) not engage in actions which would lead to the State Officers removal from the membership of a professional body. in accordance with the law; 
(i) not commit offences and in particular, any of the offences under parts XV and XVI of the Penal Code, Sexual offences act, 2006, the Counter- Trafficking in Persons Act, 2008, and the Children Act; 
(j) not engage in fighting or physical confrontation with any person; and 
(k) maintain high standards of etiquette at all times. 
(2) A person who wishes to be elected the Office shall for the purposes of this Code, submit to the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission a self-declaration in the form set out in the First Schedule to the Act. 
Gifts or benefits in kind 
13. (1) A gift or donation given to a State Officer on a public or official occasion shall be treated as a gift of donation to the office. 
(2) . Notwithstanding subparagraph (1) a State Officer may receive a gift given to the State Officer in official capacity, provided that- 
(a) the gift is within the ordinary bounds of propriety, a usual expression of courtesy or protocol and within the ordinary standards of hospitality; 
(b) the gift is not monetary; 
(c) the gift does not exceed the value of Kenya Shillings twenty thousand or such other amount as may be prescribed by the Commission through Regulations. 
(3) A State Officer shall not- 
(a) accept or solicit gifts, hospitality or other benefits from a person who- 
(i) has an interest in any matter under consideration by the. Assembly; 
(ii) has a contractual relationship with the office; 
(iii) has any interest that is directly or indirectly connected with the State Officers duties; 
(b) receive a gift which has the potential of compromising his or her integrity, objectivity or impartiality; or 
(c) accept any type of gift expressly prohibited under the Act. 
3635 
(4) A State Officer who receives a gift or donation shall declare the gift or donation to the Authorized Officer within seven days of receipt of the gift. 
(5) The Office shall maintain a register of all gifts received by the state Officers serving in the Office and another register of all gifts given by the office to other State or Public Officers. 
Wrongful or unlawful acquisition of property 
14. A State Officer shall not use the office to wrongfully or unlawfully acquire or influence the acquisition of public or other property. 
Conflict of interest 
15. (1) A State Officer shall use the best efforts to avoid being in a conflict of interest a situation where his or her personal interests conflict or appear to conflict with the State Officers official duties. 
(2) Without limiting the generality of subparagraph (1) 
(a) a State Officer shall not hold shares or have any other interest in a corporation, partnership or other body, directly or through another person, if holding those shares or having that interest would result in a conflict of the State Officers and the officers official duties. 
(3) A State Officer whose personal interest's conflict with their official duties shall declare the personal interest to the office. 
(4) The Office may give directions on the appropriate action to be taken by the State Officer to avoid the conflict of interest and the State Officer shall comply with the directions, and refrain from participating in any deliberations with respect to the matter. 
(5) Any direction issued by the office under sub paragraph (4) shall be in writing. 
(6) Notwithstanding any directions to the contrary under subparagraph (4) a State Officer shall not influence the award of a contract to- 
(a) himself or herself; 
(b) the State Officers spouse or child; 
(c) a business associate or agent; or 
(d) a corporation, private company, partnership or other body in which the officer has a substantial or controlling interest. 
(7) Where a State Officer is present at a meeting, and an issue which is likely to result in a conflict of interest is to be discussed, the State Officer shall declare the interest at the beginning of the meeting or before the issue is deliberated upon. 
(8) A declaration of a conflict of interest under subparagraph (7) shall be recorded in the minutes of that meeting. 
(9) The Office shall maintain a register of conflicts of interest in the prescribed form in which an affected State Officer shall register the particulars of the registrable interests, stating the nature and extent of the conflict. 
(10) For purposes of subparagraph (9), the registrable interests shall include: 
(a) The interests set out in the second schedule of the Act. 
(b) Any connection with a person, firm or a company, whether by relation, friendship, holding of shares or otherwise, which is subject of an investigation by the Constitution. 
(c) Any application for employment or other form of engagement with the office by a family member or friend of the State Officer or by a law firm or corporation associated with the State Officer. 
(d) Any application to the office, by a family member or friend of the State Officer, for clearance with respect to appointment or election to any public office. 
(e) Any other matter which, in the opinion of the State Officer, taking into account the circumstances thereof, is necessary for registration as a conflict of interest. 
(11) The Office shall keep the register of conflicts of interest for five years after the last entry in each volume of the register. 
