140140217 THE KENYA GAZETTE 19th January, 2018 
Copies of the part development plan has been deposited for public inspection at the office of the County Physical Planning, Nanyuki and Office of the County Secretary, Nanyuki. 
The copies so deposited are available for inspection free of charge by all persons interested at office of the County Physical Planning, Nanyuki and Office of the County Secretary, Nanyuki, between the hours of 8.00 a.m. to 4.30 p.m. Monday to Friday. 
Any interested person who wishes to make any representation in connection with or objection to the above-named development plan may send such representations or objections in writing to be received by the County Physical Planning Officer, P.O. Box 823–10400, Nanyuki, within sixty (60) days from the date of publication of this notice and such representation or objection shall state the grounds on which it is made. 
Dated the 9th January, 2018. 
KENNETH NJIHIA KARANJA, 
MR/4121549 for Director of Physical Planning. GAZETTE NOTICE NO. 499 
THE PHYSICAL PLANNING ACT 
(No. 6 of 1996) 
COMPLETION OF DEVELOPMENT PLAN 
(PDP No. CGS321/2017/06 for Proposed Site for TSC Offices, Siaya) NOTICE is given that the above-mentioned development plan was on 29th November, 2017, completed. 
The development plan relates to land situated within Siaya Town in Siaya County. 
Copies of the development plan has been deposited for public inspection at the office of the County Director of Physical Planning, Sub-County Administrator, Alego Usonga and Deputy Commissioner Alego Usonga. 
The copies so deposited are available for inspection free of charge by all persons interested at office of the County Director of Physical Planning, Sub-County Administrator, Alego Usonga and Deputy Commissioner, Alego Usonga, between the hours of 8.00 a.m. to 5.00 p.m. Monday to Friday. 
Any interested person who wishes to make any representation in connection with or objection to the above-named development plan may send such representations or objections in writing to be received by the County Physical Planning Officer, P.O. Box 803–40600, Siaya, within sixty (60) days from the date of publication of this notice and such representation or objection shall state the grounds on which it is made. 
Dated the 13th December, 2017. 
M. OCHIENG, 
MR/4121696 for Director of Physical Planning. GAZETTE NOTICE NO. 500 
THE ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT AND 
CO-ORDINATION ACT 
(No. 8 of 1999) 
THE NATIONAL ENVIRONMENT MANAGEMENT AUTHORITY ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT STUDY REPORT FOR THE PROPOSED 18.5MW NYAMINDI CASCADE 
DEVELOPMENT IN KIRINYAGA COUNTY 
INVITATION OF PUBLIC COMMENTS 
PURSUANT to regulation 21 of the Environmental Management and Co-ordination (Impact Assessment and Audit) Regulations, 2003, the National Environment Management Authority (NEMA) has received an Environmental Impact Assessment Study Report for the above proposed project. 
The proponent, RAREH Eco Hydropower Company Limited, is proposing to develop an 18.5MW Nyamindi cascade development in Kirinyaga County. Under the proposed cascade development project, the head waters of River Nyamindi will be utilized to generate electricity power with three small hydro power projects. The combined capacity of the three SHPPs is 18.5 MW. The annual generation is estimated to be to the tune of 98,509 MWh of electricity. 
The following are the anticipated impacts and proposed mitigation measures: 
19th January, 2018 
Impacts Proposed mitigation measures 
Loss of aquatic  Fell only the trees marked for felling; all biodiversity other trees should be protected to save the forest cover in the forested area. 
 Conserve riparian forests in the agricultural areas: reduce the vegetation clearance footprint. 
 Establish more riparian forests of indigenous trees or environmental friendly ones in agricultural areas. This could be undertaken in keeping with the mitigation measures as recommended in the impact. 
 Rehabilitate all degraded land during and following completion of construction activities. 
 Install systems to discourage fish from entering abstraction equipment, including acoustic barriers, lighting barriers and bubble curtains. 
 Retain forest cover in the forested area.  Establish more riparian forests of indigenous trees or environmental friendly ones in agricultural areas. 
 Rehabilitate all degraded land during and following completion of construction activities. 
 Monitoring of biological and chemical parameters in the water and in aquatic biota to alert the proponent, relevant Government Agencies and local communities on potential hazards to aquatic habitat. 
Habitat loss and  Areas that will not be put to immediate modification use to be left intact. 
 Excavation should not be carried out during the rainy(wet) season when animals are breeding. 
 Top soil to be kept aside for use in replanting and landscaping. 
 Together with experts relocate animals that move slowly and found in the site during excavation and clearing. 
 Reestablish original habitat patterns to improve surface water runoffs before commencing operations. 
 Establish erosion prevention measures on sloping areas to prevent soil erosion on loose soils after from excavation. 
 Ensure that extensive damage to the forest should not be made by engaging heavy machinery for clearing and excavation work. 
 Where possible use already established tracks and roads. 
 Use of human labour (non-mechanized) during construction inside the forest to minimize damage to the forest habitat.  The project proponent should compensate by rehabilitating/ restoring the modified habitat elsewhere. 
Invasive species  Habitat monitoring to detect and manage invasive species early before habitats is irreversibly modified. 
 Project proponent to put in place invasive species control and management program. 
 Trap and rid-off the site of any rodents which attract snakes. 
 All workers be equipped with protective gear like heavy duty shoes and tough 