2nd September, 2016 THE KENYA GAZETTE 3649 
The farm site to be registered as workplace with the Directorate Occupational Health and Safety. 
Solid waste management . Use of an integrated solid waste management system i.e. through a hierarchy of options: 1. Source reduction 2. Recycling 3. Reuse 4. Disposal. 
Dispose off waste at the designated dump sites. 
Transportation of wastes from the site to be done by a NEMA registered solid waste handler who will use appropriate vehicles for conveyance of wastes from site to designated sites. 
Comply with the Waste Management Regulations, 2006. 
Effluent from workforce . Procure a portable toilet facility to be emptied at appropriate intervals by licensed contractors. 
Traffic management Heavy commercial vehicles delivering raw materials shall observe designated speed limits for the area. 
Personnel shall be deployed at site entry and exit to direct traffic in and out of the site. Security personnel could double in this role. 
Proper signage and warnings to be placed on the access route to forewarn other motorists on the use of the road by heavy commercial vehicles. 
Possible fire outbreak Display waming signs e.g. "No Smoking', 'Highly Flammable', etc. to mitigate lighting fire on or near mitigate 
flammable substances. 
Create awareness among workers on safety (Train in fire safety). 
Designate a storage area for fuel/highly flammable substances that will be guarded to limit access. 
Increased water demand . Ensure sources of water for use meets the standards specified under schedule I of Legal Notice No. 120 of 2006 (standards for domestic supply). 
Create awareness among workers on the importance of conservation of water (resources). 
Seek water extraction permits from WARMA before the proposed boreholes are sunk to supplement the reticulated supply. 
Increased energy demand . Create awareness among workers on the and public health importance of conservation of energy resources. 
Employ technologies that demand less energy consumption. 
Use energy saving lighting systems. 
The full report of the proposed project is available for inspection during working hours at: 
(a) Director-General, NEMA, Popo Road, off Mombasa Road, P.O. Box 67839-00200, Nairobi. 
(b) Principal Secretary, Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources, N.H.I.F. Building, Community, P.O. Box 30126- 00100, Nairobi. 
(c) County Director of Environment, Kilifi County. 
The National Environment Management Authority invites members of the public to submit oral or written comments within thirty (30) days from the date of publication of this notice to the Director-General, NEMA, to assist the Authority in the decision making process of the plan. 
GEOFFREY WAHUNGU, 
Director-General, MR/9672146 National Environment Management Authority. 3649 
GAZETTE NOTICE NO. 6989 
EXPEDITIOUS AUCTIONEER. 
DISPOSAL OF UNCOLLECTED GOODS 
PURSUANT to section 5 of the Disposal of Uncollected Goods Act (Cap. 38) of the laws of Kenya, notice is given to Fantasy Auctioneers, the owners of goods card No. 0092 attached under case No. 86 of 2012 Kerugoya Benson Murimi Muriuki versus Jane M Muthee, which have been lying uncollected at L.R. No. 209/3530/9 Nairobi the premises of Expeditious Auctioneers. 
Further notice is given that unless the said goods are collected within thirty (30) days from the date of publication of this notice upon payment of all the outstanding amount and incidental costs incurred to expeditious auctioneers as at the date when delivery is taken, failure to which the said goods will be sold either by public auction or private treaty without any further reference to the owners and the proceeds of sale shall be defrayed against storage charges and any other incurred cost. 
Dated the 24th August, 2016. 
SOLOMON MBUGUA. 
MR/9721135 Auctioneer. GAZETTE NOTICE NO. 6990 
RESTORERS CONSULT AUCTIONEERS 
DISPOSAL OF UNCOLLECTED GOODS 
NOTICE is issued pursuant to the provisions of section 5 of the Disposal of Uncollected Goods Act (Cap 38) of the Laws of Kenya to the owners of Toyota Spacio reg. No. KAX 472K to note that unless the storage, labour and other expenses incurred are paid within thirty (30) days from the date of publication of this notice, we shall proceed to sell the vehicle without any further notice whatsoever. 
SIMON KIBUE, 
MR/9672270 Director, Restorers Consult Auctioneers. GAZETTE NOTICE NO. 6991 
MADISON INSURANCE 
LOSS OF POLICY 
Policy No. LK 3270113 in the name of Karani Andrew Waweru, of P.O. Box 1520-10100, Nyeri. 
NOTICE is given that evidence of loss or destruction of the above policy documents has been submitted to the company and any person in possession of the policy documents or claiming to have interest therein should communicate within thirty (30) days by registered post with the company, failing any such communication certified copies of the policy which shall be the sole evidence of the contract will be issued. 
Dated the 9th August, 2016. 
JOSEPHAT MUTHWII, 
MR/9672261 Underwriting Manager, Life. GAZETTE NOTICE NO. 6992 
MADISON INSURANCE 
LOSS OF POLICY 
Policy No. LS 3251311 in the name of Rose Kieleko, of P.O. Box 30599-00100, Nairobi. 
NOTICE is given that evidence of loss or destruction of the above policy documents has been submitted to the company and any person in possession of the policy documents or claiming to have interest therein should communicate within thirty (30) days by registered post with the company, failing any such communication certified copies of the policy which shall be the sole evidence of the contract will be issued. 
Dated the 9th August, 2016. 
JOSEPHAT MUTHWII , 
MR/9672261 Underwriting Manager, Life. 