3648 THE KENYA GAZETTE 2nd September, 2016 activities Soil compaction. 
Pressure on existing Erection of warning and informative infrastructure i.e. roads, signs. i.e. notices, bill boards at the site power, water among during the construction phase and traffic others control along the connecting road. 
Increased waste Proper designing of drainage channels materials(both solid and regular maintenance of the same. 
and liquid) 
Contamination of the Maintenance should be carried out at ground with oil and designated service bays to avoid grease substances contamination of environment by resultant oil and greases. 
Oil leaks and spills Regular inspection of underground tanks for leakages. 
Construction of a three pit oil interceptor tanks to separate oil from sludge. 
Double walling of underground tanks to guard against leaks. 
Protecting the underground tanks with corrosion prevention materials. 
Prioritizing the upgrade of equipment and installation of existing facilities of a network after a defined age. 
Careful siting of the project to ensure that it lies in an environment that is far from environmental receptors including sewers, tunnels, vaults, surface water reservoirs etc. 
Destruction of soil Ensure use of manual labour and hand structure tools where appropriate. 
Ensure the contractor takes the shortest time possible. 
Soil and ground water Regular hydraulic pressure testing of the contamination underground tanks. 
Non destructive testing, for example, ultrasound testing. 
Generation of Minimization of volume of storm water contaminated waste generated from vehicle fueling stations water and storm water and UST containment areas through installation of roofs or other types of covers. 
Implementation of secondary containment procedures that avoid accidental or intentional releases of contaminated containment fluids. 
Segregation of clean drainage and potentially contaminated drainage, treating the latter through oil/water separators. Oil water separators may include baffle type or coalescing plate type. They should be properly designed, operated, and maintained to achieve the desired water treatment results. 
The full report of the proposed project is available for inspection during working hours at: 
(a) Director-General, NEMA, Popo Road, off Mombasa Road, P.O. Box 67839-00200, Nairobi. 
(b) Principal Secretary, Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources, N.H.I.F. Building, Community, P.O. Box 30126- 00100, Nairobi. 
(c) County Director of Environment, Nyamira County. 
The National Environment Management Authority invites members of the public to submit oral or written comments within thirty (30) days from the date of publication of this notice to the Director-General, NEMA, to assist the Authority in the decision making process of the plan. 
GEOFFREY WAHUNGU, 
Director-General, MR/9721140 National Environment Management Authority. 2nd September, 2016 GAZETTE NOTICE NO. 6988 
THE ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT AND 
CO-ORDINATION ACT 
No. 8 of 1999) 
THE NATIONAL ENVIRONMENT MANAGEMENT 
AUTHORITY 
ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT STUDY REPORT FOR THE PROPOSED 200 ACRE BAMBOO PLANTATION ON PLOT NO. KILIFI/WERU/23 SITUATED AT LANGOBAYA LOCATION IN KILIFI COUNTY 
INVITATION OF PUBLIC COMMENTS 
PURSUANT to regulation 21 of the Environmental Management and Co-ordination (Impact Assessment and Audit) Regulations, 2003, the National Environment Management Authority (NEMA) has received an Environmental Impact Assessment Study Report for the above proposed project. 
The Proponent, Africa Plantation Capital Management Limited is proposing to establish a 200 acre bamboo plantation on plot number Kilifi/Weru/23 situated at Bao Lala area in Langobaya Location, Kilifi County. Bamboo is a versatile, strong, renewable and environment- friendly material. The project will also involve drilling of boreholes; installation of plumbing and water reticulation systems; construction of a site office and store; installation of overhead tanks with a minimum capacity of 10M ; construction of 4No. water reservoirs/dams for rain harvesting and construction of a toilet block with a septic tank-soak pit system for waste water management. 
The following are the anticipated impacts and proposed mitigation measures: 
Impacts Mitigation Measures 
Noise pollution Preparation work and delivery of raw materials will be limited to day time hours only. 
Delivery of raw materials will be done so as to exclude weekends. 
Inform neighbours in writing prior to commencement of the development so that they are prepared psychologically at least two weeks in advance. 
Employees using equipment that produce peak sounds shall be provided with earmuffs. 
Comply with the provisions of Noise Regulations (Legal Notice No. 61 of 2009). 
Destruction of physical Initial cultivation to be undertaken environment during dry season to limit soil erosion by rain water runoff. 
Ensure that any compacted areas are ripped to reduce run-off. 
Practice contour farming. 
Dust and fumes Ensure strict enforcement of on-site speed limit regulations. 
Ensure all equipment is serviced regularly to avoid excessive fumes. 
Insist on use of low sulphur diesel and other environmentally friendly fuels. 
Access road and dust surfaces at the farm site should be sprinkled with water twice a day. 
Health and safety of Provision of adequate and appropriate employees at the PPE including safety shoes, dust masks, workplace helmets, gloves and overalls. 
Train them in the use of all equipment that they will be required to operate. 
Ensure that all chemicals used in are appropriately labeled or marked. 
The contractor to implement the provisions of the Occupational Safety and Health Act, No. 15 of 2007. 
