3634 THE KENYA GAZETTE 2nd September, 2016 APPROVED by the Ethics and Anti-corruption commission, in accordance with the provisions of section 39 of the leadership and integrity act 2012. 
At ........ ............... this .... .day of .. ... 2016 ........ 
SECRETARY/ CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER 
ETHICS AND ANTI-CORRUPTION COMMISION 
MR/9721241 
GAZETTE NOTICE NO. 6980 
THE LEADERSHIP AND INTEGRITY ACT 
(No. 19 of 2012) 
THE COUNTY ASSEMBLY OF KWALE 
PURSUANT to section 37 of the Leadership and Integrity Act, 2012, the County Assembly of Kwale establishes this Leadership and Integrity Code to be observed by and binding upon State Officers in the County Assembly. 
PART I-STATEMENT OF INTENT 
A Leadership and Integrity Code for State Officers in the County Assembly of Kwale made pursuant to the provisions of section 37 of the Leadership and Integrity Act, 2012 and to give effect to Chapter Six of the Constitution of Kenya. The Code is intended to establish standards of integrity and ethical conduct in the leadership and management of public affairs of the County Assembly by ensuring that the State Officers respect the values, principles and provisions of the Constitution and other applicable laws or policies on the standards of conduct and performance expected of holders of public office in the discharge of their duties. 
PART II-PRELIMINARY PROVISIONS 
Citation 
1. This Code may be cited as the Leadership and Integrity Code for State Officers in the County Assembly of Kwale. 
Commencement 
2. This Code shall come into operation upon its publication in the Kenya Gazette. 
Interpretation 
3. In this code, unless the context otherwise requires- 
"Act" means the Leadership and Integrity Act, 2012; [No. 19 of 2012]; 
"Accounting Officer" means the Clerk of the County Assembly; 
"Assembly" means the County Assembly of Kwale or a Committee of the County Assembly; 
"Authorized Officer" means the Speaker of the County Assembly or his designate; 
"Bank Account" has the meaning assigned to it under section 2 of the Act; 
"Code" means the Leadership and Integrity Code for State Officers in the County Assembly of Kwale; 
"Commission" means the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission established under section 3 of the Ethics and Anti-corruption commission Act, No. 22 of 2011; 
"Office" means the County Assembly or a Committee of the County Assembly; 
"Personal Interest" means a matter in which a State Officer has a direct or indirect pecuniary or non-pecuniary interest and includes the interest of this or her spouse, child, business associate or agent; 
"Public Officer" has the meaning assigned to it under Article 260 of the Constitution; 
"Regulations" means the Regulations made by the Ethics and Anti- Corruption commission pursuant to section 54 of the Act; 
"Serving State Officer" means a State Officer who is in office at the time of commencement of this Code; 
"State Officer" means a Member of the County Assembly of Kwale; 
2nd September, 2016 Application of Chapter Six of the Constitution, the Leadership and Integrity Act, 2012 and the Public Officer Ethics Act, 2003 
4. The provisions of Chapter Six of the Constitution, the Leadership and Integrity Act, the Public Officer Ethics Act, 2003 and shall form part of the code. 
Commitment to the Code 
5. (1) A State Officer elected to the County Assembly shall sign and commit to this Code at the time of taking oath of office or within seven days of assuming office. 
(2) A serving State Officer shall sign and commit to this Code within fourteen days of the publication of the Code in the Gazette. 
(3) The declaration of commitment to the Code shall take the form and structure set out in the First Schedule to this Code. 
PART II-REQUIREMENTS 
Rule of law 
6. (1) A State Officer shall respect and abide by the Constitution and all other laws. 
(2) A State Officer shall carry out the duties of his or her office in accordance with the law. 
(3) In carrying out the duties of his or her office, a State Officer shall not violate the rights and fundamental freedoms of any person. Public trust 
7. A State Office is a position of public trust and the authority and responsibility vested in a State Officer shall be exercised by the State Officer in the best interest of the office and the people of Kenya. 
Responsibility and duties 
8. Subject to the constitution and any other law, a State Officer shall take personal responsibility for the reasonably foreseeable consequences of any actions or omissions arising from the discharge of the duties of his or her office. 
Performance of duties 
9. A State Officer shall, to the best of his or her ability - 
(a) carry out the duties of the office efficiently and honestly; 
(b) carry out the duties of the office in a transparent and accountable manner; 
(c) keep accurate records and documents relating to the functions of the office; and 
(d) report truthfully on all matters of the office. 
Professionalism 
10. A State Officer shall- 
(a) carry out the duties of his or her office in a manner that maintains public confidence in the integrity of the office; 
(b) treat members of the public, staff and other state and public officers with courtesy and respect; 
(c) to the extent appropriate to the office, maintain high standards of performance and level of professionalism within the office and; 
(d) if the State Officer is a member of a professional body, observe and subscribe to the ethical and professional requirements of that body in so far as the requirements do not contravene the Constitution, any other law or this Code. 
Financial integrity 
11. (1) A State Officer shall not use his or her office to unlawfully or wrongfully enrich himself or herself or any other person. 
(2) Subject to article 76 (2) (b) of the Constitution a State Officer shall not accept a personal loan or benefit which may compromise the State Officer in carrying out his or her duties. 
(3) A State Officer shall submit an initial declaration of income, assets and liabilities within thirty days of assuming office and thereafter make biennial declarations to the office, and a final declaration within (30) days of ceasing to be a State Officer. 
