2nd September, 2016 THE KENYA GAZETTE 3615 
The National Land Commission as a constitutional body has the legal mandate to support the government in land administration and management. Although the Commission has the overall responsibility to ensure the development of an effective and efficient land information system, other agencies have interest in developing their own components of LIMS to help them perform their functions better. In this regard, the Commission cannot and should not hold back these agencies from developing these components. Additionally, technology advances have pushed system integration to the fore making software integration a requirement, thereby emphasizing openness in system implementation allowing different systems to seamlessly communicate, share and feed into collaborative workflows. 
These developments have pushed to the fore the need to have in place standards and guidelines to help inform the various agencies as they collaboratively work with the Commission in developing components of NLIMS that serve them. Thus, the development of standards and guidelines will go a long way in making prescriptions that allow the development of system components by the different agencies in a fashion that allows their seamless integration and leverages their respective financial commitments to better, serve their various clients, the citizens and the nation at large. The Commission has been spearheading the development of the standards and guidelines. 
The development process has taken slightly over a year and half. It commenced with the idea to hold a national stakeholders' workshop to collect and collate views from the body of stakeholders on what they would desire included in a standards and guidelines documents. To organize this, a Workshop Planning Committee (WPC) was constituted in November 2014. This committee drew its participants from Donor agencies, Civil Society, Ministry of Land, Housing and Urban Development, the Commission, Academia and Professional bodies. The WPC met severally from January 2015 culminating in the holding of the first National Stakeholders Workshop in 19-20 March, 2015. This workshop attracted over 60 organizations drawn from the entire fabric of stakeholders in the land sector. 
Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO) through a project financed by the European Union (EU), committed to supporting a consultant to coordinate the development of the standards. This consultant consolidated views collected and prepared a draft that was shared with stakeholders. This draft was successfully validated during the second national stakeholders workshop held on 27-28 January, 2016. This workshop attracted over 80 stakeholder organizations, who exhibited high degree of enthusiasm towards the development of the NLIMS. The validated document has been finally prepared incorporating all the views collected during the workshop. 
The standards and guidelines that have been presented in here are the basic minimum that have to be factored in by those stakeholders implementing components relevant to them that feed to the bigger NLIMS solution. The implementation and adherence to the prescriptions presented herein will go a long way in ensuring the realization of the noble aspirations of an efficient and effective LIMS for both national and county levels of the devolved governance structures .. 
Prof. Muhammad Swazuri, PhD, O.G.W. 
Chairman, National Land Commission 
Prof. Jacob T. Kaimenyi, PhD, FICD, E.G.H ., 
Cabinet Secretary, 
Ministry of Land, Housing and Urban Development 
Executive Summary 
Establishment of a National Land Information System (NLIMS), as a platform for effective and efficient land administration and management, is provided for in Constitution of Kenya, 2010 and the appropriate land laws. However, in a devolved government and administration system, where various institutions and stakeholders, with their different mandates and objectives, are involved, this can be challenging task. 
Integration and interoperability of NLIMS sub-systems by various institutions and stakeholders can be assured and achieved, if in the development and operation of the system, common standards and guidelines are followed. 
3615 
These standards and guidelines are targeted at the officers at the National and County Government institutions involved in acquisition, development and management of land information. As the main objective of NLIMS is to make land information more readily accessible to the wide range of potential users, these standards and guidelines will ensure that: 
(1) Co-ordination and management of land administration and management programmes across jurisdictional boundaries is enhanced by ensuring that land information can be readily integrated. 
(2) Costly duplication of developing and maintaining similar land records is avoided; instead public resources are saved by facilitating the sharing of computerized land information among public agencies or divisions within agencies. 
The development of these standards and guidelines was based on principles outlined in the National Land Policy, which are further categorized as general, substantive and operational principles. This document has been prepared and consolidated from presentations, discussions from stakeholder representatives, expert views and comments, and stakeholder workshops. The initiation workshop was held on 19th and 20th March, 2015 in Nairobi, and the validation workshop held between 27th and 28th January, 2016 in Naivasha. 
The general principles that the development of NLIMS should consider include the following: 
1. a nationwide land information management system should be established at both national and county levels of government to help streamline operations and management of land in the country. 
2. the governments at the national and county levels are distinct and inter-dependent and shall conduct their mutual relations with respect to the NLIMS on the basis of consultation and cooperation. 
3. national and county organs shall ensure reasonable access to NLIMS services in all parts of the Republic. 
This document is hinged on substantive principles contained in the National Land Policy with respect to land information and its management. The issues considered for standardization and guidelines include: institutions and responsibilities; processes and procedures; availability, organization, quality and documentation of land information; system security, availability and accessibility; implementation and pricing of land information at national and county levels of government. These are organized into nine chapters as follows: 
Chapter 1: Provides introduction of the standards and guidelines document by presenting the background, objectives, the scope and the revisions; 
Chapter 2: Presents the vision, mission and guiding principles of the NLIMS; 
Chapter 3: Gives an outline of the responsibilities of various institutions involved in NLIMS; 
Chapter 4: Highlights the key land administration processes that require and contribute information to NLIMS, and provisions required to standardize the procedures; 
Chapter 5: Presents an outline of provisions and standards about the availability, organization, quality and documentation of land information within NLIMS; 
Chapter 6: Gives guidelines on NLIMS system security, availability and accessibility: 
Chapter 7: Contains provisions regarding the implementation, performance auditing and pricing of land information; 
Chapter 8: Contains transitional provisions; 
Chapter 9: Contains the glossary of terms used in the standards and guidelines document. 
1. Introduction 
1.1 Background 
The Constitution of Kenya, 2010 mandates National Government, County Government and the National Land Commission with the 