3640 THE KENYA GAZETTE 2nd September, 2016 (5) Any direction issued by the office under sub paragraph (4) shall be in writing. 
(6) Notwithstanding any directions to the contrary under subparagraph (4) a State Officer shall not influence the award of a contract to- 
(a) himself or herself; 
(b) the State Officers spouse or child; 
(c) a business associate or agent; or 
(d) a corporation, private company, partnership or other body in which the officer has a substantial or controlling interest. 
(7) Where a State Officer is present at a meeting, and an issue which is likely to result in a conflict of interest is to be discussed, the State Officer shall declare the interest at the beginning of the meeting or before the issue is deliberated upon. 
(8) A declaration of a conflict of interest under subparagraph (7) shall be recorded in the minutes of that meeting. 
(9) The Office shall maintain a register of conflicts of interest in the prescribed form in which an affected State Officer shall register the particulars of the registrable interests, stating the nature and extent of the conflict. 
(10) For purposes of subparagraph (9), the registrable interests shall include- 
(a) the interests set out in the second schedule of the Act; 
( b) any connection with a person, firm or a company, whether by relation, friendship, holding of shares or otherwise, which is subject of an investigation by the Constitution. 
(c) any application for employment or other form of engagement with the office by a family member or friend of the State Officer or by a law firm or corporation associated with the State Officer. 
(d) any application to the office, by a family member or friend of the State Officer, for clearance with respect to appointment or election to any public office. 
(e) any other matter which, in the opinion of the State Officer, taking into account the circumstances thereof, is necessary for registration as a conflict of interest. 
(11) The Office shall keep the register of conflicts of interest for five years after the last entry in each volume of the register. 
(12) The Office shall prepare a report of the registered interests within thirty days after the close of a financial year. 
(13) A State Officer shall ensure that an entry of registrable interests under subparagraph (9) is updated and to notify the office of any changes in the registrable interests, within one month of each change occurring 
Participation in tenders invited by the office 
17. (1) A State Officer shall not participate in a tender for the supply of goods or services to the office. 
(2) Notwithstanding subparagraph (1) a company or entity associated with the State Officer shall not be construed as trading with the office, unless- 
(a) the State Officer has a controlling shareholding in the company or entity; or 
(b) the State Officer is a director of the company; or 
(c) the State Officer is a managing partner in a law firm providing services to the office. 
Public collections 
18. (1) A State Officer shall not solicit for contributions from the office or any other person or, public entity for a public purpose unless the President has, by notice in the Gazette, declared a national disaster and allowed a public collection for the purpose of the national disaster in accordance with the law. 
(2) A State Officer shall not participate in a public collection of funds in a way that reflects adversely on the State Officers' integrity, impartiality or interferes with the Performance of the official duties. 
2nd September, 2016 (3) Nothing in this clause shall be constructed as prohibiting a State Officer from making voluntary contribution. 
Bank accounts outside Kenya 
19. (1) Subject to Article 76(2) of the Constitution or any other written law, a State Officer shall not open or continue to operate a bank account outside Kenya without the approval of the Commission. (2) A State Officer who has reasonable grounds for opening or operating a bank account outside Kenya shall apply to the commission for approval to open or operate a bank account outside Kenya. 
(3) A State Officer who operates or controls the operation of a bank account outside Kenya shall submit statements of the account annually to the commission and authorize the commission to verify the statements and any other relevant information from the foreign financial institution in which the account is held. 
(4) Subject to subparagraph (1) and (2), a person who is appointed or elected as a State Officer in the office and has a bank account outside Kenya shall, upon such appointment or election close the bank account within 3 months or such other period as the Commission may prescribe by notice in the Gazette. 
(5) Subject to subparagraph (4) a State Officer may open or continue to operate a bank account outside Kenya as may be authorized by the Commission in writing. 
Acting for foreigners 
20. (1) A State Officer shall not be an agent of, or further the interests of a foreign government, organization or individual in a manner that may be detrimental to the security interests of Kenya, except when acting in the course of official duty. 
(2) For the purposes of this paragraph- 
(a) an individual is a foreigner if the individual is not a citizen of Kenya; and 
(b) an organization is foreign if it is established outside Kenya or is owned or controlled by a foreign government, organization or individual. 
Care of property 
21 (1) A State Officer shall take all reasonable steps to ensure that public property in his or her custody, possession or control is taken care of and is in good repair and condition. 
(2) A State Officer shall not use public property, funds or services that are acquired in the course of or as a result of the official duties, for private activities of activities that are not related to the official work of the State Officer. 
(3) A State Officer shall return to the office all the public property in his or her custody, possession or control at the end of the election or contract term. 
(4) A State Officer who contravenes subparagraph (2) or (3) shall, in addition to any other penalties provided for under the Constitution, the Act or any other law, be personally liable for any loss or damage to the public property. 
Misuse of official information 
22. (1) A State Officer shall not directly or indirectly use or allow any person under the officers authority to use any Information obtained through or in connection with the office, which is not available in the public domain, for the furthering of any private interest, whether financial or otherwise. 
(2) A State Officer shall not be deemed to have violated the requirements of subparagraph (1), if the information given- 
(a) pursuant to a court order; 
( b ) for purposes of educational, research, literary, scientific or other purposes not prohibited by law; or 
(c) in compliance with Article 35 of the Constitution and the relevant law. 
Impartiality 
24. A State Officer shall, at all times, carry out the duties of the Office with impartiality and objectivity in accordance with principles and values set out in Articles 10, 27, 73 (2)(b) and 232 of the Constitution and shall not practice favouritism, nepotism, tribalism, cronyism, religious bias or engage in other preferential treatment of another State Officer, Public Officer or a member of the public. 
