19th January, 2018 THE KENYA GAZETTE 141 
pants. 
 Educate local people of dangers from snake bites and how to prevent them 
 Educate workers on the harmless nature of reptiles like chameleons and other lizards to remove phobia. 
 Ensure that local hospitals to obtain anti- venom which is readily available in Bio- ken Malindi. 
 Put in place a proper waste management programme. 
 Dispose all solid waste according to NEMA waste management regulations 2006 and EMCA Cap. 387. 
Impacts on fauna and  Ensure that excessive oil or chemicals flora due to oil and spill into the environment where there chemical spillage are a large number of species living on the natural environment: Where possible keep all machinery away from the river and water sources. This can be achieved by: 
 A log of all dangerous chemicals be kept, how to be used, transported stored and disposed. 
 Keep all dangerous chemicals, oils, greases, solvents, and residues in a store room. 
 Have a standard operating procedure manual on how to deal with spills and how to prevent them. 
 Train worker on spills and how to deal with them. 
 Have a containment and disposal plan for all hazardous material (where to dispose). 
 All oils and hazardous materials disposed of according to NEMA waste management regulations 2006 and EMCA Cap. 387. 
Dust and exhaust  Wetting the areas where there will be particles strong winds carrying dust particles on the habitat of the species. 
 Using Sprinklers to reduce dust when work involving dust is to be carried out.  Allow not to toss up dust when vehicles speed set at limits of 60 to 700 KMP. 
 Set units like generators in areas where winds will blow most of the smoke away. 
 Type of fuels to be used should be low Sulphur and unleaded fuels avoid heavy industrial oils. 
Protection of water  Vehicle wash bay should be away from sources from possible the river or other streams. 
contamination 
 All sediments from the construction concrete mixers and batching plants etc. should be equipped with settlement tanks and filtration system. 
 Ensure that the receiving body of effluent waters should be treated to the standards stipulated by NEMA. 
 Construct settlement tanks along the wash bay and other chemical storage areas (including fuel storage areas). 
 Manage dewatered effluents properly when they are sent back into the river. Equip them with silt traps and settlement tanks. 
 A water quality monitoring programme should be implemented at least every six months to ensure that construction and 141 
operational activities of the project will not interfere with the water quality. 
Water abstraction  Install river gauging system to monitor water flows. 
Prevent soil erosion  All spoils should be dumped into a designated spoil yard and they should be graded and compacted if they are not used for filling purposes. 
 Top soil to be kept aside for use in replanting and landscaping. 
 Establish erosion prevention measures on steep embankments (Retention structures and natural barriers such as turfs and stone pitching to prevent erosion.). 
 Identify area with slopes to prevent soil erosion on loose soils after excavation.  Use of human labor (non-mechanized) during construction inside the forest to minimize damage to the forest habitat. Waste management  There should be an appropriate waste management practices that include: Separation of wastes according to their hazardous and non-hazardous nature and their proper treatment and disposal with special attention paid to any hazardous wastes. 
 Wastes from construction work should be minimized by reusing most of the recyclable materials. 
 These shall be supplemented by having waste management facilities e.g. waste containers on site during construction that takes waste segregation into account. 
 The contractor should work hand in hand with the Local authority of the sub location for the collection of sewage and other hazardous waste appropriately as per the NEMA stipulated regulations. 
 Vendors should be registered with the contractor to receive the cement bags and other hazardous waste and their final destination should be closely monitored.  All the temporary toilets need to be sited according to the local regulations that require minimum distance from water courses. 
 Adherence to Waste Management Regulations, 2006. 
Crop damages and  Any damage caused to private or livelihood losses due to community property whether construction activities accidentally or with intent shall be swiftly compensated at a rate agreed on between the property owner and the contractor in accordance with the law.  In case of failure to come to an agreement the affected person(s) will be free to appeal for assistance through the location chief or the GC. 
 Ensure that no damage is occurred to any land, structure or crop due to vehicular , machinery movement and blasting activities.. 
 Ensure payment of compensation to landowners whose lands will have poles constructed for power evacuation lines.  Provide alternative water sources when the construction at the weir points can increase turbidity of the water. 
 Provide public safety by way of road humps, sign boards and no access limits for the public. 
