2nd September, 2016 THE KENYA GAZETTE 3641 
Giving of advice 
25. A State Officer who has a duty to give advice shall give honest, accurate and impartial advice without fear or favour. 
Offers of future employment 
27. (1) A State Officer shall not allow himself of herself to be influenced in the performance of his or her duties by plans or expectations for or offers of future employment or benefits. 
(2) A State Officer shall disclose, in writing, to the Commission, all offers of future employment or benefits that could place the State Officer in a situation of conflict of interest. 
Former State Officer acting in a government or public office . 
28. A former State Officer shall not be engaged by the Office in a matter in which the State Officer was originally engaged in as a State Officer, for at least two years after leaving the office. 
Misleading the public 
29. A State Officer shall not knowingly give false or misleading information to any person. 
Falsification of records 
30. A State Officer shall not falsify any records or misrepresent information to the public. 
Conduct of private affairs 
31. A State Officer shall conduct their private affairs in a manner that maintains public confidence in the integrity of the Office. 
Bullying 
32. (1) A State Officer shall not bully another State or Public Officer or any other person. 
(2) For purposes of subparagraph (1) "bullying" includes blackmail, coercion, threats, intimidation or repeated offensive behaviour which is vindictive, cruel, malicious or humiliating whether or not is intended to undermine a person and includes physical assault. Acting through others 
33. (1) A State Officer shall not- 
(c) cause anything to be done through another person that would constitute a contravention of this Code, the Constitution or any other law if done by the State Officer; or 
(d) allow or direct a person under their supervision or control to do anything that is in contravention of this Code, the Constitution or any other law; 
(e) subparagraph (1) (b) shall not apply where anything is done without the State Officer's knowledge or consent or if the State Officer has taken reasonable steps to prevent it. 
'Reporting improper orders 
34. If a State Officer considers that anything required of him or her is in contravention of the Code or is otherwise improper or unethical, the State Officer shall report the matter to the Commission. 
(2) The Commission shall investigate the report and take appropriate action within ninety days of receiving the report. 
Duty to prevent occurrence of corruption or unethical practice in the office 
36. A State Officer who believes or has reason to believe corrupt act or unethical malpractice has occurred or is about to occur in the office shall take all necessary measures to prevent it from continuing or materializing in addition to any other appropriate action. 
Use of social media 
37. A State Officer shall not use social media in a manner that is. prejudicial to public interest, national cohesion or that otherwise constitutes a breach of any law. 
Dress code 
38. A State Officer shall maintain appropriate standard of dress and personal hygiene at all times. 
3641 
Political and other influence 
39. (1) A State Officer shall exercise independence in the discharge of his duties and shall not allow himself to be subjected to political or any other internal or external influence that is detrimental to public interest. 
(2) a State Officer shall not influence of attempt to influence the decision of any other State or Public Officer or public entity on any matter. 
(3) A State Officer shall not in any way interfere with the duties of any other State Officer Public Officer or public entity. 
Implementation of development projects 
40. (1) A State Officer shall exercise prudence in the undertaking of development projects and shall at times prioritize projects that are most urgent for the public. 
(2) For the purposes of sub-paragraph (1), a State Officer shall, before planning for any project, to the extent applicable, undertake and facilitate public and stakeholder participation in the determination of the projects to be implemented at any given time. 
(3) A State Officer shall not undertake any project without prior planning or budgeting. 
(4) A State Officer shall not demand or accept any kickbacks, gifts, benefits or other favours from contractors. 
(5); A State Officer shall not compromise or abet comprising of standards of any project implemented for the office. 
(6). A State Officer shall, subject to the law, disclose all relevant information regarding any project to any person requiring such information. 
Preferential treatment 
41. A State Officer shall ensure equal and equitable distribution of resources to all persons and any section of the population in his area of jurisdiction and shall not confer any undue advantage to any person or section of the population. 
PART III-ENFORCEMENT OF THE CODE 
42. (1) Any person may lodge a complaint alleging a breach of this code by a State Officer to the Office or to the commission. 
(2) Breach of this Code amounts to misconduct for which the State Officer may be subjected to disciplinary proceedings including removal from office. 
(3) Where a Breach of this code amounts to violation of the Constitution, the State Officer may be removed from the office in accordance with the applicable laws. 
(4) Where an allegation of breach is made to the Office, the person alleging the breach shall submit a petition setting out the grounds and facts of the alleged violation to the Authorized Officer of the Office. 
(5) Upon receipt of the Complaint, the Office shall register and carry out investigations into the complaint, and may take action against the State Officer in accordance with the Act and any Regulations made by the Commission under the Act. 
(6) If upon investigation into the alleged breach of the Code, the Office is of the opinion that civil or criminal proceedings out to be preferred against the respective State Officer, it shall refer the matter to- 
(a) the Commission, with respect to civil matters; and 
(b) the director of Public Prosecutions with respect to criminal matters. 
(7) Where the complaint is made to the Commission, the Commission shall take such action against the State Officer as it deems necessary in accordance with its mandate under the law. 
(8) Notwithstanding sub-paragraph (5), the Commission may, subject to the law, take any additional action it deems appropriate in relation to any breach of the Code or require the Office to take any action against a State Office who has breached the Code. 
Victimization 
43. A State Officer shall not in any way victimize any other State Officer or Public Officer or any other person for any lawful action or omission. 
