20th January, 2017 THE KENYA GAZETTE 515 
 All workers operating in noisy areas or operating noisy equipment will be provided with earpieces to protect against extreme noise. 
 Comply with L.N. 25: Noise Prevention and Control Rules, 2005 
Generation of solid waste  Wastes to be collected regularly to control air pollution and vermin/insects etc. 
 Receptacles will be provided for waste storage prior to collection. 
 Resource recovery will be encouraged once the project takes off so as to shrink waste stream and recover non- recyclables. 
 Refuse collection vehicles will be covered to prevent scatter of wastes by wind. 
 Wastes will be collected by a licensed operator to avoid illegal final dumping at unauthorized sites. 
 All persons involved in refuse collection shall be in full protective attire. 
Pollution from hazardous  Handling of the materials using the waste material safety data provided by the manufacturers. 
 Appoint a safety officer to ensure that proper disposal guideline are observed.  In case of spillage emergency spillage control measures to be instituted. 
 Containerization of any wastes and disposal through a licensed waste handler. 
Loss of natural vegetation  Ensure proper demarcation and cover delineation of the project area to be affected by construction works. 
 Introduction of vegetation (trees and grass) on within the green and recreational areas within the project and their maintenance. 
 Design and implement an appropriate landscaping programme to help in re- vegetation of parts of the project area after construction. 
Disturbance of soil  Sensitization to the project workers on structure proper soil conservation and management measures. 
 Excavations on unintended areas should be avoided. 
Increase in STI infections  Sensitization of local communities and and other related staff working on the project on dangers diseases of free lifestyle. 
 HIV/AIDS awareness training for all employees and subcontractors. 
 Sensitization of the locals and the project staff on proper sanitation and hygiene. Labour issues  Project proponent should put in place a proper strategy to ensure fair recruitment of workers incorporating both locals and people from other areas. 
 Sensitization to the local communities on the expected population influx should be done. 
The full report of the proposed project is available for inspection during working hours at: 
(a) Director-General, NEMA, Popo Road, off Mombasa Road, P.O. Box 67839–00200, Nairobi. 
515 
(b) Principal Secretary, Ministry of Environment and Mineral Resources, NHIF Building, Community, P.O. Box 30126– 00100, Nairobi. 
(c) County Director of Environment, Kilifi County. 
The National Environment Management Authority invites members of the public to submit oral or written comments within thirty (30) days from the date of publication of this notice to the Director-General, NEMA, to assist the Authority in the decision making process of the plan. 
GEOFFREY WAHUNGU, 
Director-General, MR/2484413 National Environment Management Authority. GAZETTE NOTICE NO. 495 
THE ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT AND 
CO-ORDINATION ACT 
(No. 8 of 1999) 
THE NATIONAL ENVIRONMENT MANAGEMENT 
AUTHORITY 
ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT STUDY REPORT FOR THE PROPOSED REGIONAL OFFICE DEVELOPMENT ON PLOT L.R. NO. 1/184 NAIROBI ALONG LENANA ROAD IN KILIMANI, NAIROBI CITY COUNTY 
INVITATION OF PUBLIC COMMENTS 
Pursuant to Regulation 21 of the Environmental Management and Coordination (Impact Assessment and Audit) Regulations, 2003, the National Environment Management Authority (NEMA) has received an Environmental Impact Assessment Study Report for the above proposed project. 
The Proponent, PTA Bank - Eastern & Southern African Trade and Development Bank is proposing to construct their regional office building on plot L.R No. 1/184- Nairobi in Kilimani, along Lenana Road in Nairobi City County. The project will consist of a nineteen (19) tower floors office block with three (3) basement levels for parking. Upon completion, the development will be PTA Banks’ regional office and will have the following features: Conferencing facilities, office space, coffee shop/restaurant, a plaza, lettable space, retail units, sky gardens and fire escapes. 
The following are the anticipated impacts and proposed mitigation measures: 
Impacts Proposed mitigation measures 
Vegetation/  Ensure proper demarcation and delineation of the project area to be affected by biodiversity 
construction works. 
disturbance 
 Specify locations for trailers and equipment, and areas of the site which should be kept free of traffic, equipment and storage. 
 Designate access routes and parking within the site. 
Increased storm  Consider harvesting and recycling storm water for utilization within the project site. water, runoff and 
Disposal of storm water that will not be soil erosion harvested will be via surface drain off. 
 Ensure that construction vehicles are restricted to existing graded roads to avoid soil compaction within the project site. 
 Ensure that any compacted areas are ripped to reduce run-off. 
 Open drains all interconnected will be provided on site. 
Solid waste  Private waste disposal company to be management contracted to transport and dispose the solid waste from site. 
Air quality  Ensure strict enforcement of on-site speed limit regulations. 
 When working in extremely dry weather ensure adequate dust mitigation measures 