5th July, 2019 THE KENYA GAZETTE 2479 
Impacts Proposed Mitigation Measures 
Ensure all machinery and other moving parts of machinery are enclosed or guarded. 
. Provide fully equipped First Aid Kits. 
Install safety net to protect workers against falling objects. 
Food for workers to be supplied by vendors licensed by Public Health office. 
Use stable ladders/ support structures. 
Medical checkup for all workers prior to and throughout the construction phase. 
Conduct sensitization campaign for the public on risks related to construction sites. Over extraction of Source construction materials from quarry raw materials. and sand mining firms which have been registered and have received NEMA approval. 
Prepare and purchase construction materials as per the bill of quantities to avoid wastage of resources. 
Consider reuse of construction materials and use of recycled materials. 
Ensure that the construction materials delivered at the site are covered. 
to avoid loss of construction materials through run-off and wind. 
Solid waste Minimize waste generated through hierarchy generation of options: source 'reduction, recycling, reuse, combustion and sanitary land filling. 
The contractor should adhere to bill of quantities to avoid wastage. 
Provide adequate number of suitable solid waste containers. 
Ensure use of durable, long- lasting construction materials that will not need to be replaced oftenly. 
Purchase and make use of building materials that have minimal packaging to avoid generation of excessive packaging waste. 
Air pollution ; Spraying of dry soils in excavated areas and access road to suppress dust. 
Regular maintenance of construction equipment/ machines. 
Proper personal protective gears i.e. dust masks. 
Stacked building material on-site shall be kept for shortest time possible. 
Where feasible use alternative non-fuel construction equipment or use low Sulphur. fuel. 
Hazardous waste: Segregate wastes by separating hazardous : management :: waste from non-hazardous wastes. 
Securely bundled and labeled hazardous waste . 
Noise and excessive . .. Construction activities to be restricted to vibration daytime (0800-1700hrs) only. 
Affix Silencers and mufflers on exhaust systems (where necessary) of all mechanical equipment. 
Sensitize truck drivers and : machine. operators to switch off engines when not in use. 
2479 
Impacts Proposed Mitigation Measures 
Isolation of the source and sensitive receptors during the construction phase will be undertaken to minimize the impacts of noise and vibration. 
Ensure that noise levels emanating from machinery, vehicles and noisy construction activities are kept at a minimum. 
Adherence to EMCA Noise and Excessive Vibration Pollution Control Regulation of 2009. 
Destruction of the Landscaping the site to restore the landscape components of the original grounds. 
Conduct site clearing activities in stages to minimize the area of exposed soil. 
Seeding exposed soil to minimize soil erosion. 
Change in drainage . Monitoring and maintaining proper storm pattern water drainage systems. 
Redirecting flows during periods of heavy rains to minimize erosion and surface runoff. 
Improve section of the road fronting the plot to provide ample drainage. 
The full report of the proposed project is available for inspection during working hours at: 
(a) Director-General, NEMA, Popo Road, off Mombasa Road, P.O. Box 67839-00200, Nairobi. 
(b) Principal Secretary, Ministry of Environment and Forestry, NHIF Building, Community, P.O. Box 30126-00100, Nairobi. 
(c) County Director of Environment , Kilifi County. 
The National Environment Management Authority invites members of the public to submit oral or written comments within thirty (30) days from the date of publication of this notice to the Director-General, NEMA, to assist the Authority in the decision making process of the plan. 
GEOFFREY WAHUNGU, 
> Director-General, MR/6508317 National Environment Management Authority. GAZETTE NOTICE NO. 5976 
THE COPYRIGHT ACT 
(No. 12 of 2012) 
TALENT WORKS AND RIGHTS ENFORCEMENTS AGENCY POWER OF ATTORNEY 
PURSUANT to section 33 of the Copyright Act, notice is given that Talent Works and Rights Enforcements has been authorized through power of attorney and the assignment mandate issued by Still Alive Productions, the proprietor namely Timothy Omare Boikwa, to execute as an agency in its power and with the assistance of the State bodies and the police to protect against infringement of all copyrights and enforce all interests among other mandates stated therein. 
Dated the 24th June, 2019. 
EDWARD R. OLANG, 
Director/CEO, MR/6508197 Talent Works and Rights Enforcements. GAZETTE NOTICE NO. 5977 
OL JOGI LIMITED. 
CLOSURE OF PRIVATE ROADS AND FOOTPATHS 
NOTICE is given to the general public that all private roads and footpaths on L.R. No.s 10524, 10689, 2744, 7367, 7269/1, 7269/2, 