5th July, 2019 THE KENYA GAZETTE 2465 Sensitize staff on the HR manual. 
Undertake research on HR best practices. 
Prepare succession management plans and advise the county government. 
service. 
Acquainting the Board on relevant treaties and conventions for the county. 
Create and manage a database of all county staff. 
Sensitize staff on Performance Appraisal System (PAS). 
Undertake a Training Needs Assessment (TNA) and implement feasible recommendations. 
Develop and implement a service charter for the Board. 
Analyze personnel emoluments and advise the county government on optimal levels of wage bill. 
committee. 
Oversee the implementation of CARPS's feasible recommendations. 
service employees. 
(vii) Administration support services 
Develop and review Board's Organogram. 
Establish positions identified in the Boards' Organogram. 
Recruit and re-train secretariat staff. 
Hold a bonding session between the Board and the County Executive. 
functions. 
Prepare budget to match the resources with programmes/activities and monitor its implementation. Develop and maintain a web portal for the Board. 
Automate boards record keeping through Document Management System 
Networking the CPSB Offices to ensure internet connectivity for effective service delivery. 
2.1 Accomplished Board's Activities 
2.1.1 Recruitment 
PWDs and people from outside the county. 
Table 2.1: Summary of Recruitments 
Total Number of advertised post 274 Total number of applications received 2292 Total number of shortlisted candidates 314 Total number of appointments 155 Number of male appointed 76 Number of female appointed 79 Number of youth appointed 134 Number of PWD appointed 
Number of persons from outside Samburu County 39 Table 2.2: Distribution of Appointments by Sub-County 
from outside Samburu County comprises of persons from Laikipia, Kisii and Machakos counties among others. 
2.1.2 Staff Promotions 
Department No. 
Sports and Youth Affairs 1 
Total 
- 
Only one request for promotion was approved in the previous year. 
2465 % of appointed 
100% 
49.03% 
51.00% 
86.45% 
0.01% 
25.16% 
