2nd September, 2016 THE KENYA GAZETTE 3633 
(2) A State Officer shall not influence of attempt to influence the decision of any other State or Public Officer or public entity on any matter. 
(3) A State Officer shall not in any way interfere with the duties of any other State Officer Public Officer or public entity. 
Implementation of development projects 
37. A State Officer shall exercise prudence in the undertaking of development projects and shall at times prioritize projects that are most urgent for the public. 
(2) For the purposes of sub-paragraph (1), a State Officer shall, before planning for any project, to the extent applicable, undertake and facilitate public and stakeholder participation in the determination of the projects to be implemented at any given time. 
(3) A State Officer shall not undertake any project without prior planning or budgeting. 
(4) A State Officer shall not demand or accept any kickbacks, gifts, benefits or other favours from contractors. 
(5) A State Officer shall not compromise or abet comprising of standards of any project implemented for the office. 
(6) A State Officer shall, subject to the law, disclose all relevant information regarding any project to any person requiring such information. 
Preferential treatment 
38. A State Officer shall ensure equal and equitable distribution of resources to all persons and any section of the population in his area of jurisdiction and shall not confer any undue advantage to any person or section of the population. 
PART III-ENFORCEMENT OF THE CODE 
Lodging a complaint 
39. (1) Any person may lodge a complaint alleging a breach of this code by a State Officer to the Office or to the commission. 
(2) Breach of this Code amounts to misconduct for which the State Officer may be subjected to disciplinary proceedings including removal from office. 
(3) Where a Breach of this code amounts to violation of the Constitution, the State Officer may be removed from the office in accordance with the applicable laws. 
(4) Where an allegation of breach is made to the Office, the person alleging the breach shall submit a petition setting out the grounds and facts of the alleged violation to the Authorized Officer of the Office. 
(5) Upon receipt of the Complaint, the Office shall register and carry out investigations into the complaint, and may take action against the State Officer in accordance with the Act and any Regulations made by the Commission under the Act. 
(6) If upon investigation into the alleged breach of the Code, the Office is of the opinion that civil or criminal proceedings out to be preferred against the respective State Officer, it shall refer the matter to - 
(a) the Commission, with respect to civil matters; and 
(b) the Director of Public Prosecutions with respect to criminal matters. 
(7) Where the complaint is made to the Commission, the Commission shall take such action against the State Officer as it deems necessary in accordance with its mandate under the law. 
(8) Notwithstanding sub-paragraph (5), the Commission may, subject to the law, take any additional action it deems appropriate in relation to any breach of the Code or require the Office to take any action against a State Office who has breached the Code. 
Victimization 
40. A State Officer shall not in any way victimize any other State Officer or Public Officer or any other person for any lawful action or omission. 
Complying with directive of the Commission 
41. The Authorized Officer or Accounting Officer of the Office shall at all times comply with such orders or directives as may be 3633 
issued by the Commission from time to time towards the implementation of this Code. 
Advisory opinion 
42. A State Officer or the office may request the Commission to give an advisory opinion on any issue relating to, but not limited to -- (a) the application of Chapter Six of the Constitution. 
(b) the application of the Act or any other applicable law or regulations dealing with the ethics and integrity of State Officers; 
(c) the application of the Public Officer Ethics Act 2003, or any other law or regulations dealing with the ethics and integrity of public officers; . 
(d) the application of this Code; 
(e) an ethical dilemma; or 
(f) any other matter incidental to the promotion of the ethics and integrity of State Officers and public officers generally. 
Training on leadership and integrity 
43. The office shall collaborate with the Commission to ensure that the State Officers and public officers serving in the Office are sensitized on leadership and integrity issues at least once a year. 
Personal responsibility 
44. Each State Officer shall take personal responsibility or compliance with the provisions of this Code. 
Annual report 
45. The Authorized Office or his designate shall cause to be prepared and submitted to the Commission an Annual Report on the progress made in implementation and enforcement of the Code in a prescribed format by the Commission. 
Amendment to the Code 
46. (1) The Code shall be reviewed at such intervals as the county may determine. 
(2) Notwithstanding subsection (1) any amendments to the code Office may with approval of the Commission amend this Code shall be submitted to the commission for approval. 
FIRST SCHEDULE (Para. 6(3)) COMMITMENT TO THE LEADERSHIP AND INTEGRITY CODE FOR STATE OFFICERS IN EMBU COUNTY GOVERNMENT I .. ... holder of National ID/Passport No. ..... and Post Office Box No. having been elected or appointed as . in the County Executive of Embu County Government do hereby confirm that I have read and understood the Leadership and Integrity Code for State Officers in the County Executive of Embu County Government and hereby solemnly declare and commit myself to abide by the provisions of the Code at all times. 
SIGNED at . 
By the said .... ) 
Deponent 
This . ... day of. .20 .. 
Before Me 
... ) 
Judge/ Magistratel Commissioner for Oaths 
PRESCRIBED for the State Officers in the County Executive of Embu in accordance with the provisions of section 37 of the Leadership and Integrity Act, 2012. 
At. this. ..... day of .... 2016 Governor of the County Government of Embu 
