217 THE KENYA GAZETTE 6th October, 2017 
5490 
TOTAL 27 
Preliminary Enquiry (PE) complaints 
Total number of complaints subjected to Preliminary Enquiry (PE) were one hundred and forty nine (149). 
Total number of complaints settled under the Preliminary Enquiry (PE) were eighty (80). 
The matters referred to the Disciplinary Tribunal (DT) during the same period for further action and in accordance with Section 57(1) of the Advocates Act were thirty two (32). 
During the same period a further forty one (41) cases were disposed of as follows: 
No. of Complaints 
(a) Advocates struck off the Roll of Advocates 3 
(b) Advocates suspended 7 
(c) Advocates acquitted Nil 
(d) Settled (matters resolved) 22 
(e) Withdrawn Nil 
(f) Dismissed 8 
(g) Others 1 
TOTAL 41 
In pursuant to section 53(4) and in the spirit of section 53(5) of the Advocates Act, forty one (41) complaints were settled amicably at the Advocates’ Complaints Commission. 
Dated the 3rd October, 2017. 
BEAUTTAH SIGANGA, 
Chairman, Advocates Complaints Commission. GAZETTE NOTICE NO. 9917 
THE CO-OPERATIVE SOCIETIES ACT 
(Cap. 490) 
INQUIRY ORDER 
WHEREAS I have on my own accord, decided that an inquiry be held into the— 
(a) by-laws; 
(b) working and financial conditions; and 
(c) the conduct of the management committee, and past or present members or officers— 
of Central Ngandori Farmers Co-operative Society Limited (CS/1054) and in accordance with section 58 as read together with section 73 of the Co-operative Societies Act of the laws of Kenya. 
Now therefore, I authorize (1) Robert Asumani, Chief Co- operative Auditor, Headquarters, (2) Peter Kinuthia, Senior Co- operative Officer, Kajiado County, to hold an inquiry within sixty (60) days at such place and time as may be expedient and duly notified by them. 
The attention of the officers and members of the society is directed to the following sections of the Co-operative Societies Act. 
Section 60 (1)—Cost of inquiry. 
Section 60 (2)—Recovery of costs of expenses. 
Section 73—Surcharges. 
Section 94—Offences. 
Dated the 28th August, 2017. 
MARY N. MUNGAI, 
MR/3567970 Commissioner for Co-operative Development. GAZETTE NOTICE NO. 9918 
THE CO-OPERATIVE SOCIETIES ACT 
(Cap. 490) 
6th October, 2017 
LIQUIDATION EXTENSION ORDER 
WHEREAS the liquidators of the Co-operative Societies listed herebelow have been unable to complete the liquidations within the period of one (1) year as specified, it has been deemed necessary that the same be extended as hereunder: 
Name of Society CS/No. Name of Liquidator 
Nkuene Farmers Co-operative 246 Boniface M. Karanja Society Limited 
Kiera Farmers Co-operative Society 4514 Boniface M. Karanja Limited 
Wauzaji Savings and Credit Co- 2737 David M. Kyule 
operative Society Limited 
Now therefore, I extend the liquidation period for another term not exceeding one (1) year. 
Dated the 2nd October, 2017. 
MARY N. MUNGAI, 
MR/3567970 Commissioner for Co-operative Development. GAZETTE NOTICE NO. 9919 
THE WATER ACT 
(No. 43 of 2016) 
EMERGENCY TAKEOVER BY TANA WATER SERVICE BOARD OF THE WATER SERVICE SUPPLIES RUN BY KIRINYAGA WATER AND 
SANITATION COMPANY IN KIRINYAGA COUNTY 
NOTICE is given that after consultations with the County Government of Kirinyaga, the Water Services Regulatory Board (WASREB) has under section 102 of the Water Act, 2016, Legal Notice No. 59 of 2017, Legal Notice No. 60 of 2017 and clause 19 of the Service Provision Agreement between Tana Water Services Board (TWSB) and Kirinyaga Water and Sanitation Company (KIRIWASCO) authorized the extension of the emergency management and takeover by Tana Water Service Board (TWSB) of the operations and supplies that were managed by KIRIWASCO (agent) for a further period of six (6) months. 
During this period: 
(a) There shall be appointed in accordance with standards prevailing in the water services subsector a competent board of directors which shall provide leadership and strategic direction to the water service operations under the water service provider wholly controlled by the County Government of Kirinyaga. 
(b) There shall be put in place a competent core management team meeting the criteria of Legal Notice No. 137 of 2012 for the water service operations. 
(c) There shall be sustained stabilization of the human resources by ensuring progressively there are skilled human resources to operate the water services under systems and structures that ensure performance and accountability. 
(d) There shall be sustained turnaround in the technical and operational issues in the water service operations by— 
(i) having a non revenue water reduction plan; 
(ii) having a rehabilitation plan of the distribution network; (iii) having an improved billing and collection strategy; 
(iv) having a performance based system of monitoring with the water service operations; 
(v) ensuring the finding of the Inspection Report by WASREB are corrected and implemented; 
(e) The Oversight Committee comprising the County Government of Kirinyaga, WASREB and TWSB shall continue to meet to monitor progress of 1, 2, 3 and 4 above. 
The decision has been taken in concurrence with the County Government of Kirinyaga as per the provisions of Article 189 of the Constitution. 
The takeover period shall be for a period of six (6) months from the date of this notice. 
Dated the 2nd October, 2017. 
