2478 THE KENYA GAZETTE 5th July, 2019 
Impacts Proposed Mitigation Measures 
Ensure that construction machinery is kept in good condition to reduce noise generation. 
Increased demand Harvest rainwater. 
for water 
Promote recycling and reuse of water as much as possible. 
Promptly detect and repair of water pipe and tank leaks. 
Sensitize construction workers to conserve water. 
Increased demand . Ensure electrical equipment and appliances for energy are switched off when not being used 
Install energy saving fluorescent tubes and bulbs, at all lighting points instead of bulbs which consume higher electric energy. 
Ensure planning of transportation of materials to ensure that fossil fuels (diesel, petrol) are not consumed in excessive amounts. 
Monitor energy and set targets for reduction of energy use 
Oil spills A designated garage section of the site fitted with oil trapping equipment to be planned for changes. 
Prompt cleaning of oil and fuel spills. 
Proper disposal o clothing or rags contaminated with oil. 
Storm water Surface runoff and roof water shall be management harvested and stored for reuse. 
Apply soil erosion control measures such as levelling of the project site to reduce run-off velocity and increase infiltration of storm water. 
Design a storm water management plan that minimizes impervious area infiltration by use of recharge areas and use of detention and/or retention with graduated outlet control structure. 
Occupational health . Registration of the Project as per sections 43 and safety and 44 of the Occupational Safety and Health Act, 2007. 
Safety training shall be emphasized. 
Suitable, efficient, clean, well-lit and adequate sanitary conveniences should be provided for construction workers. 
Ensure that machinery, equipment, personal protective equipment, appliances and hand tools comply with the prescribed safety and health standards and be appropriately installed maintained and safeguarded. 
Arrangements must be in place to train and supervise inexperienced workers regarding construction machinery . use and other procedures/operations. 
Ensure that materials are stored or stacked in such manner as to ensure their stability and prevent any fall or collapse. 
Well stocked first aid box which is easily available and accessible should be provided. Fire hazards and Firefighting equipment such as fire accidents extinguishers and hydrant systems should be provided at strategic locations. 
5th July, 2019 
Impacts Proposed Mitigation Measures 
Signs such as "NO SMOKING" must be prominently displayed within the construction site. 
Regular inspection and servicing of the equipment must be undertaken and records of such inspections maintained. 
The full report of the proposed project is available for inspection during working hours at: 
(a) Director-General, NEMA, Popo Road, off Mombasa Road, P.O. Box 67839-00200, Nairobi. 
(b) Principal Secretary, Ministry of Environment and Forestry, NHIF Building, Community, P.O. Box 30126-00100, Nairobi. 
(c) · County Director of Environment, Bomet County. 
The National Environment Management Authority invites members of the public to submit oral or written comments within thirty (30) days from the date of publication of this notice to the Director-General, NEMA, to assist the Authority in the decision making process of the plan. 
GEOFFREY WAHUNGU, 
Director-General, MR/6508013 National Environment Management Authority. GAZETTE NOTICE NO. 5975 
THE ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT AND. 
CO-ORDINATION ACT 
(No. 8 of 1999) 
THE NATIONAL ENVIRONMENT MANAGEMENT 
AUTHORITY 
ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT STUDY REPORT FOR THE PROPOSED STEEL GALVANIZING PLANT AT 
UWANJA WA NDEGE, KALIANG'OMBE SUB-LOCATION, 
RABAI SUB-COUNTY IN KILIFI COUNTY 
INVITATION OF PUBLIC COMMENTS 
Pursuant to Regulation 21 of the Environmental Management and Co-ordination (Impact Assessment and Audit) Regulations, 2003, the National Environment Management Authority (NEMA) has received an Environmental Impact Assessment Study Report for the above proposed project. 
The proponent, Roofings Kenya Limited, is proposing to construct a steel galvanizing plant and attendant auxiliary facilities at Uwanja Wa Ndege, Kaliang'ombe Sub-location, Rabai SubCounty in Kilifi County. 
The following are the anticipated impacts and proposed mitigation measures: 
Impacts Proposed Mitigation Measures. 
Loss of biodiversity . Set up barriers to prevent off-road driving. Ensure proper landscaping after completion of construction phase. 
Demarcate and delineate areas to be affected by the construction work. 
landscape plan shall be developed to include action items corresponding to each phase of the project. 
Conducting site clearing activities in stages to minimize the area of exposed soil. 
Occupational health . Avail Warning signs of on-going and safety construction work. 
Appoint a safety supervisor. 
Machines to be operated . by ,qualified personnel only. 
