217 THE KENYA GAZETTE 24th December, 2015 
3042 
GAZETTE NOTICE NO. 9524 
COUNTY GOVERNMENT OF KITUI 
COUNTY PUBLIC SERVICE BOARD 
REPORT ON THE EXTENT OF COMPLIANCE WITH THE 
NATIONAL VALUES AND PRINCIPLES OF GOVERNANCE IN THE KITUI COUNTY PUBLIC SERVICE 
BOARD MEMBERS 
The Board has perpetual succession and is capable of suing and be sued under its corporate name. The Kitui County Public Service Board is composed of the following: 
Rose K. Masya—Chairperson 
Patrice M. Ivuti—Vice-Chairman 
Naomi M. Mangatu (Dr.)—Member 
Salim B. Shaabani—Member 
Bridget M. Mutemi—Member 
Samuel M. Ikima—Member 
Japheth M. Muthengi—Ag.BS 
FOREWORD 
The Kitui County Public Service Board is established under section 57 of the County Governments Act No. 17 of 2012. 
The County Public Service Board is required, under Section 59 (1) (f) of the County Government Act 2012, to evaluate and report to the County Assembly on the extent to which the values and principles referred to in Articles 10 and 232 are complied with in the County Public Service. 
Under the Constitution, the public service has specific obligations whose objective is to provide a solid base for the effective and efficient delivery of public services. One of these foundations is expressed in terms of the values and principles as mentioned in Articles 10 and 232 of the Constitution. The evaluation on the extent to which the public service has complied with these values and principles provides a mechanism for confirming the progress realized in the fulfillment of the obligations. 
The report has analysed the current situation for the values and principles and the actions taken by the Board to increase the levels of compliance. Findings in this evaluation report show that, during the 2014/15 and 2015/16 Financial Years, considerable levels of compliance have been realised. 
While the County has made great strides in improvement of levels of compliance with values and principles, there is still much more to be done. The Board would wish to request for the cooperation of various arms of the County Government in the promotion of values and principles. 
I take this opportunity to thank The County Executive, with the leadership of H.E the Governor, and the County Assembly for their concerted efforts in inculcating a culture of continuous improvement on the extent of compliance with values and principles in the County Government of Kitui. 
ROSE K. MASYA (MRS.) , 
Chairperson, Kitui County Public Service Board. 
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY 
This report is developed in fulfillment of the constitutional requirement where the County Public Service Board is required to evaluate and report to the County Assembly on the extent to which the values and principles referred to in Articles 10 and 232 are complied with in the County Public Service. 
In its evaluation process, the Board considered what had been done, the current status and the required actions for the improvement on compliance with values and principles. The evaluation was based on available documentation from all the County Departments and Ministries , internal records of the County Public Board and physical checks. 
The report is developed in four major parts. The first part looks at the establishment, functions and powers of the Board with a special emphasis on its role in the promotion of Values and principles in the County Public Service. 
The second and main body on the report is on the extent to which the values and principles referred to in Articles 10 and 232 of the constitution have been complied with in the County Public Service. 24th December, 2015 
This section of the report gives a situational analysis and actions taken in the promotion of the values and principles. 
The third section reports on the impediments in the promotion of values and principles and the fourth is on planned values and principles promotional programs. The report also provides recommendations which could enhance the promotion of values and principles in the County Government of Kitui. 
CHAPTER ONE 
INTRODUCTION – THE PUBLIC SERVICE BOARD 
ESTABLISHMENT OF COUNTY PUBLIC SERVICE BOARD 
The Kitui County Public Service Board is a body corporate established under Section 57 of the County Governments Act, 2012. This is the actualization of Article 235 of the Constitution of Kenya 2010, which gave the County Governments the task of: (a) Establishing and abolishing offices in the County Public Service; (b) Appointing persons to hold or act in offices of the County Public Service and confirming appointments; (c) Exercising disciplinary control over, and removing, persons holding or acting in the offices provided for under this part. 
MANDATE AND CORE FUNCTIONS 
The functions of the County Public Service Board as provided under section 59 (1) of the County Governments Act No 17 of 2012 are, on behalf of the County Government, to: 
(a) Establish and abolish offices in the County Public Service; 
(b) Appoint persons to hold or act in offices of the County Public Service including in the Boards of cities and urban areas within the County and to confirm appointments; 
(c) Exercise disciplinary control over, and remove, persons holding or acting in those offices as provided for under this part; 
(d) Prepare regular reports for submission to the County Assembly on the execution of the functions of the Board; 
(e) Promote in the County Public Service the values and principles referred to in Articles 10 and 232 of the Constitution; 
(f) Evaluate and report to the County Assembly on the extent to which the values and principles referred to in Articles 10 and 232 are complied with in the County Public Service; 
(g) Facilitate the development of coherent, integrated human resource planning and budgeting for personnel emoluments in counties; 
(h) Advise the County Government on human resource management and development; 
(i) Advise County Governments on implementation and monitoring of the national performance management system in counties; 
(j) Make recommendations to the Salaries and Remuneration Commission, on behalf of the County Government, on the remuneration, pensions and gratuities for county public service employees. 
VISION 
A values driven, efficient and effective County public service 
MISSION 
To appoint qualified and competent County human resource, and promote high standards of professional ethics and accountability for excellent public service delivery 
CORE VALUES 
 Teamwork 
 Respect 
 Integrity 
 Professionalism 
Powers of the Board in the Promotion of Values and Principles 
In the performance of its functions under Section 59 (1) (e) of the County Governments Act 2012, the County Public Service Board has powers to: 
(a) Inform and educate County public officers and the public about the Values and Principles; 
