3636 THE KENYA GAZETTE 2nd September, 2016 (12) The Office shall prepare a report of the registered interests within thirty days after the close of a financial year. 
(13) A State Officer shall ensure that an entry of registrable interests under subparagraph (9) is updated and to notify the office of any changes in the registrable interests, within one month of each change occurring. 
Participation in tenders invited by the office 
16. (1) A State Officer shall not participate in a tender for the supply of goods or services to the office. 
(2) Notwithstanding subparagraph (1) a company or entity associated with the State Officer shall not be construed as trading with the office, unless- 
(a) the State Officer has a controlling shareholding in the company or entity; 
(b) the State Officer is a director of the company; or 
(c) the State Officer is a managing partner in a law firm providing services to the office. 
Public collections 
17. (1) A State Officer shall not solicit for contributions from the office or any other person or, public entity for a public purpose unless the President has, by notice in the Gazette, declared a national disaster and allowed a public collection for the purpose of the national disaster in accordance with the law. 
(2) A State Officer shall not participate in a public collection of funds in a way that reflects adversely on the State Officers' integrity, impartiality or interferes with the performance of the official duties. 
(3) Nothing in this clause shall be construed as prohibiting a State Officer from making voluntary contribution 
Bank accounts outside Kenya 
18. (1) Subject to Article 76 (2) of the Constitution or any other written law, a State Officer shall not open or continue to operate a bank account outside Kenya without the approval of the Commission. (2) A State Officer who has reasonable grounds for opening or operating a bank account outside Kenya shall apply to the commission for approval to open or operate a bank account outside Kenya. 
(3) A State Officer who operates or controls the operation of a bank account outside Kenya shall submit statements of the account annually to the commission and authorize the commission to verify the statements and any other relevant information from the foreign financial institution in which the account is held. 
(4) Subject to subparagraph (1) and (2), a person who is appointed as a State Officer in the office and has a bank account outside Kenya shall, upon such appointment close the bank account within 3 months or such other period as the Commission may prescribe by notice in the Gazette. 
(5) Subject to subparagraph (4) a State Officer may open or continue to operate a bank account outside Kenya as may be authorized by the Commission in writing. 
Acting for foreigners 
19. (1) A State Officer shall not be an agent of, or further the interests of a foreign government, organization or individual in a manner that may be detrimental to the security interests of Kenya, except when acting in the course of official duty. 
(2) For the purposes of this paragraph 
(a) an individual is a foreigner if the individual is not a citizen of Kenya; and 
b) an organization is foreign if it is established outside Kenya or is owned or controlled by a foreign government, organization or individual. 
Care of property 
20. (1) A State Officer shall take all reasonable steps to ensure that public property in his or her custody, possession or control is taken care of and is in good repair and condition. 
(2) A State Officer shall not use public property, funds or services that are acquired in the course of or as a result of the official duties, for private activities or activities that are not related to the official work of the State Officer. 
2nd September, 2016 (3) A State Officer shall return to the office all the public property in his or her custody, possession or control at the end of the election or contract term. 
(4) A State Officer who contravenes subparagraph (2) or (3) shall, in addition to any other penalties provided for under the Constitution, the Act or any other law, be personally liable for any loss or damage to the public property. 
Misuse of official information 
21. (1) A State Officer shall not directly or indirectly use or allow any person under the officers authority to use any Information obtained . through or in connection with the office, which is not available in the public domain, for the furthering of any private interest, whether financial or otherwise. 
(2) A State Officer shall not be deemed to have violated the requirements of subparagraph (1), if the information given- 
(a) pursuant to a court order; 
(b) for purposes of educational, research, literary, scientific or other purposes not prohibited by law; or 
(c) in compliance with Article 35 of the Constitution and the relevant law. 
Impartiality 
22. A State Officer shall, at all times, carry out the duties of the Office with impartiality and objectivity in accordance with principles and values set out in Articles 10, 27, 73 (2)(b) and 232 of the Constitution and shall not practice favouritism, nepotism, tribalism, cronyism, religious bias or engage in other preferential treatment of another State Officer, Public Officer or a member of the public. 
Giving of advice 
23. A State Officer who has a duty to give advice shall give honest, accurate and impartial advice without fear or favour. 
Offers of future employment 
24. (1) A State Officer shall not allow himself of herself to be influenced in the performance of his or her duties by plans or expectations for or offers of future employment or benefits. 
(2) A State Officer shall disclose, in writing, to the . Commission, all offers of future employment or benefits that could place the State Officer in a situation of conflict of interest. 
Former state officer acting in a government or public office 
25. A former State Officer shall not be engaged by the Office in a matter in which the State Officer was originally engaged in as a State Officer, for at least two years after leaving the office. 
Misleading the public 
26. A State Officer shall not knowingly give false or misleading information to any person. 
Falsification of records 
27. A State Officer shall not falsify any records or misrepresent information to the public. 
Conduct of private affairs 
28. A State Officer shall conduct their private affairs in a manner that maintains public confidence in the integrity of the office. 
Bullying 
29. (1) A State Officer shall not bully another State or Public Officer or any other person. 
(2) For purposes of subparagraph (1) "bullying" includes blackmail, coercion, threats, intimidation or repeated offensive behaviour which is vindictive, cruel, malicious or humiliating whether or not is intended to undermine a person and includes physical assault. Acting through others 
30. (1) A State Officer shall not- 
(a) cause anything to be done through another person that would constitute a contravention of this Code, the Constitution or any other law if done by the State Officer; or 
(b) allow or direct a person under their supervision or control to do anything that is in contravention of this Code, the Constitution or any other law. 
