2nd September, 2016 THE KENYA GAZETTE 3637 
(2) Subparagraph (1) (b) shall not apply where anything is done without the State Officer's knowledge or consent or if the State Officer has taken reasonable steps to prevent it. 
Reporting improper orders 
31. If a State Officer considers that anything required of him or her is in contravention of the Code or is otherwise improper or unethical, the State Officer shall report the matter to the Commission. 
(2) The Commission shall investigate the report and take appropriate action within ninety days of receiving the report. 
Duty to prevent occurrence of corruption or unethical practice in the office 
32. A State Officer who believes or has reason to believe corrupt act or unethical malpractice has occurred or is about to occur in the office shall take all necessary measures to prevent it from continuing or materializing in addition to any other appropriate action. 
Use of social media 
33. A State Officer shall not use social media in a manner that is prejudicial to public interest, national cohesion or that otherwise constitutes a breach of any law. 
Dress code 
34. A State Officer shall maintain appropriate standard of dress and personal hygiene at all times. 
Political and other influence 
35. (1) A State Officer shall exercise independence in the discharge of his duties and shall not allow himself to be subjected to political or any other internal or external influence that is detrimental to public interest. 
(2) A State Officer shall not influence or attempt to influence the decision of any other State or Public Officer or public entity on any matter. 
(3) A State Officer shall not in any way interfere with the duties of any other State Officer Public Officer or public entity. 
Provisions relating to implementation of projects 
36. (1) A State Officer shall in the exercise of oversight over implementation of projects not interfere with such implementation in any way. 
(2) A State Officer shall not influence the undertaking of any project without prior planning or budgeting. 
(3) A State Officer shall not demand or accept any kickbacks, gifts, benefits or other favours from contractors or other persons or entities who are engaged in implementation of projects. 
(4) A State Officer shall not compromise or abet compromising of standards of any project. 
(5) A State Officer shall, subject to the law, disclose all relevant information regarding any project to any person requiring such information. 
Preferential treatment 
37. A State Officer shall ensure equal and equitable distribution of resources to all persons and any section of the population in his area of jurisdiction and shall not confer any undue advantage to any person or section of the population. 
PART III-ENFORCEMENT OF THE CODE 
38. (1) Any person may lodge a complaint alleging a breach of this code, by a State Officer to the Office or to the commission. 
(2) Breach of this Code amounts to misconduct for which the State Officer may be subjected to disciplinary proceedings including removal from office. 
(3) Where a Breach of this code amounts to violation of the Constitution, the State Officer may be removed from the office in accordance with the applicable laws. 
(4) Where an allegation of breach is made to the Office, the person alleging the breach shall submit a petition setting out the grounds and facts of the alleged violation to the Authorized Officer of the Office. (5) Upon receipt of the Complaint, the Office shall register and carry out investigations into the complaint, and may take action against the State Officer in accordance with the Act, Standing Orders 3637 
of the Assembly, any Regulations made by the Commission under the Act or other law that for the time being governs the conduct of State Officers in the Assembly. 
(6) If upon investigation into the alleged breach of the Code, the Office is of the opinion that civil or criminal proceedings ought to be preferred against the respective State Officer, it shall refer the matter to: 
(a) The Commission, with respect to civil matters; and 
(b) The Director of Public Prosecutions with respect to criminal matters. 
(7) Where the complaint is made to the Commission, the Commission shall take such action against the State Officer as it deems necessary in accordance with its mandate under the law. 
(8) Notwithstanding sub-paragraph (5), the Commission may, subject to the law, take any additional action it deems appropriate in relation to any breach of the Code or require the Office to take any action against a State officer who has breached the Code. 
Victimization 
39. A State Officer shall not in any way victimize any other State Officer or Public Officer or any other person for any lawful action or omission. 
Duty of Authorized Officer and Accounting Officer to comply with directives of the Commission in implementation of the Code. 
40. The Authorized Officer or Accounting Officer of the Office shall at all times comply with such orders or directives as may be issued by the Commission from time to time towards the implementation and enforcement of this Code. 
PART IV-GENERAL PROVISIONS 
Advisory opinion 
41. A State Officer or the office may request the Commission to give an advisory opinion on any issue relating to, but not limited to- (a) the application of Chapter Six of the Constitution; 
(b) the application of the Act or any other applicable law or regulations dealing with the ethics and integrity of State Officers; 
(c) the application of the Public Officer Ethics Act, 2003, or any other law or regulations dealing with the ethics and integrity of public officers; 
(d) the application of this Code; 
(e) an ethical dilemma; or 
(f) any other matter incidental to the promotion of the ethics and integrity of State Officers and public officers generally. 
Training on leadership and integrity 
42. The office shall collaborate with the Commission to ensure that the State Officers and public officers serving in the Office are sensitized on leadership and integrity issues at least once a year. 
Personal responsibility for compliance 
43. Each State Officer shall take personal responsibility or compliance with the provisions of this Code. 
Annual report 
44. The Authorized Officer or his designate shall cause to be prepared and submitted to the Commission an Annual Report on the progress made in implementation and enforcement of the Code in a prescribed format by the Commission. 
Amendment of the code 
45. The Office may with approval of the Commission amend this Code. 
FIRST SCHEDULE (Para. 6(3)) COMMITMENT TO THE LEADERSHIP AND INTEGRITY CODE FOR STATE OFFICERS IN THE COUNTY ASSEMBLY OF 
KWALE 
I .. .. holder of National ID/Passport No .. and Post Office Box 