217 THE KENYA GAZETTE 24th December, 2015 
3044 
(d) Affirmative action is being undertaken to address the disadvantaged groups of people such as minority groups in the County e.g. The Tharaka, Arab, Somali, Muslim minorities, persons living with disabilities, youth and women. 
2.2.3 Good Governance, Integrity, Transparency and Accountability 2.2.3.1 Situation Analysis 
The County Ministries had developed organisational structures at the beginning of the year; however, they had not developed service 
charters. There were also no effective mechanisms for monitoring 
integrity, transparency and accountability. 
2.2.3.2 Action Taken 
The Board and all County ministries have, with the assistance of a consultant drawn organisational structure to streamline the processes for making and implementing decisions. Additionally, performance contracts were developed and signed by Senior County public service officers to ensure accountability. The Board has already developed its strategic plan and service charter. Most ministries are also in the process of developing service charters. Further, suggestion boxes were procured and placed in strategic places for purposes of reporting issues on integrity in the administrative acts of officers, as well as providing feedback on service delivery. 
In order to enhance transparency and accountability, the County Government published and distributed booklets highlighting all the development projects undertaken in each of the forty wards, including the cost of each project. 
2.2.4 Sustainable Development 
2.2.4.1 Situation analysis 
Kitui County Integrated Development plan (KCIDP) had been developed highlighting development needs of the County. The development projects contained in this document had been evaluated and considered based on their sustainability. Based on the above, the projects initiated are viable and sustainable. Since KCIDP is a medium term plan, there was need to develop a long-term vision for the County. 
2.2.4.1 Action taken 
The County Continues to implement projects in compliance with the KCIDP. 
The County through public participation designed a ten year economic blueprint named Kitui Vision for Economic and Social Transformation (KIVEST) fashioned on the National Vision 2030. The main objective of KIVEST is to provide a long term planning framework to guide socio-economic, political and environmental development in Kitui County. 
The County Government trained local artisans and local entrepreneurs to empower them to participate in implementation of development projects. Further, the local communities are involved in development projects through Ward Development Committees to ensure prioritization, ownership and management of those projects for sustainability purposes. All projects undertaken had been budgeted for and assessed to be financially feasible. 
2.3 ARTICLE 232: VALUES AND PRINCIPLES OF PUBLIC 
SERVICE 
2.3.1 High Standards of Professional Ethics 
2.3.1.1 Situation Analysis 
This was evaluated on the basis of four indicators, namely, code of conduct and ethics for officers in the public service; training for skills development; membership to professional bodies and declaration of income, assets and liabilities. 
Indicators recorded a low level of compliance with professional ethics. The County Public Service Board realized that the public service comprised officers drawn from different backgrounds with different organizational and work culture. 
Major cases of indiscipline were reported to the Public Service 
Board. 
2.3.1.2 Action taken 
The Board embarked on major sensitisation programme on Values and principles of public service aimed at creating awareness on the same, development of teamwork and improvement of service delivery 24th December, 2015 
and overall culture change in the public service. This was done in the eight Sub-Counties and the Human Resource department. 
The Board additionally uploaded the constitution and other relevant laws, and continues to upload newly enacted laws relating to Values and principles of Public Service to County Website and has drawn the attention of the County employees to the same. This increased access to knowledge on the officers’ professionalism. 
The Board undertook suitability tests and continues to do the same for various cadres for proper placement of staff and quality service delivery. 
Training approvals for officers working in the Ministry of Health and Sanitation were granted in order to ensure competence in the 
performance of their duties. 
Various trainings have been held in the county including induction of staff, training on the filling of Asset Declaration forms, training on job evaluation, performance contracting among others. 
2.3.2 Responsive, prompt, effective, impartial and equitable provision of services 
2.3.2.1 Situation Analysis 
The Board established that service delivery was below required standards as a result of officers being drawn from diverse organisational culture and work ethics. 
2.3.2.2 Action taken 
The Board embarked on major sensitisation programme on Values and principles of public service aimed at transformative leadership, development of teamwork and improvement of service delivery and overall culture change in the public service. 
County Ministries are in the process of developing service charters. The County is host to Huduma Centre where some County Services are integrated and services provided under one roof. The County Government has also complied with the use of Integrated Financial Management Information System (IFMIS), where all financial transactions are processed using the system. This has enhanced the speed of service delivery. 
The Board is undertaking mystery shopping to assess the quality of services offered by the County Public Service. 
2.3.3. Fair competition and merit as the basis of appointments and 
promotions 
2.3.3.1 Situation Analysis 
Appointments and promotions were and continue to be guided by meritocracy and fair competition. They are also guided by other legal provisions such as the need to include communities not adequately represented in appointments to or promotions in the public service, the balance of gender; consideration of minority ethnic groups; and persons living with disabilities. 
As at 30th November, 2015, the County Public Service Board had employed a total of 301 female officers representing 37 % of the total staff appointed. The male appointed officers were 512, representing 67 %. The County Public Service Board has engaged a total of 11 persons living with disabilities. The Board has enhanced its recruitment process to adequately capture data on persons living with disability. The Board continues to encourage them to apply for advertised positions, and also register with the Association for persons living with disability. 
CHAPTER THREE: 
IMPEDIMENTS IN THE PROMOTION OF VALUES AND 
PRINCIPLES 
The Board encountered various challenges in ensuring these 
values are upheld. These include: 
(a) Apathy in appreciation of ICT among the County employees which makes most employees unable to access the documents uploaded in the County Website as well as using modern technology for research and communication; 
(b) Kitui County has low internet connectivity, making the offices especially those working outside the County Headquarters unable to communicate and access internet; 
