2nd September, 2016 THE KENYA GAZETTE 3631 
(i) not commit offences and in particular, any of the offences under parts XV and XVI of the Penal Code, Sexual offences act, 2006, the Counter- Trafficking in Persons Act, 2008, and the Children Act; 
(j) not engage in fighting or physical confrontation with any person; and 
(k) maintain high standards of etiquette at all times 
(2) A person who wishes to be appointed the Office shall for the purpses of this Code, submit to the Commission a self-declaration in the form set out in the First Schedule to the Act. 
(3) In respect to a person wishing to be elected to the office, the Declaration under sub-paragraph (2) shall be submitted to the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission. 
(4) A State Officer shall maintain high standards of etiquette at all times . 
Gifts or benefits of in kind 
14. (1) A gift or donation given to a State Officer on a public or official occasion shall be treated as a gift of donation to the office. 
(2) Notwithstanding subparagraph (1) a State Officer may receive a gift given to the State Officer in official capacity, provided that - 
(a) the gift is within the ordinary bounds of propriety, a usual expression of courtesy or protocol and within the ordinary standards of hospitality; 
(b) the gift is not monetary; or 
(c) the gift does not exceed the value of Kenya Shillings twenty thousand or such other amount as may be prescribed by the Commission through Regulations. 
(3) A State Officer shall not- 
(a) accept or solicit gifts, hospitality or other benefits from a person who- 
(i) has an interest in any matter under consideration by the Office; 
(ii) has a contractual relationship with the office; 
(iii) has any interest that is directly or indirectly connected with the State Officer's duties; 
(b) receive a gift which has the potential of compromising his or. her integrity, objectivity or impartiality or; 
(c) accept any type of gift expressly prohibited under the Act. 
(4) A State Officer who receives a gift or donation shall declare the gift or donation to the Authorized Officer within seven days of receipt of the gift. 
(5) The Office shall maintain a register of all gifts received by the state Officers serving in the Office and another register of all gifts given by the office to other State or Public Officers. 
Wrongful or illegal acquisition of property 
15. A State Officer shall not use the office to wrongfully or unlawfully acquire or influence the acquisition of public or other property . 
Conflict of interest 
16 .- (1)A State Officer shall use the best-efforts to avoid being in a conflict of interest a situation where his or her personal interests conflict or appear to conflict with the State Officers official duties. 
(2) Without limiting the generality of subparagraph (1), a State Officer shall not hold shares or have any other interest in a corporation, partnership or other body, directly or through another person, if holding those shares or having that interest would result in a conflict of the State Officer's and the officer's official duties. 
(3) A State Officer whose personal interest's conflict with their official duties shall declare the personal interest to the office. 
(4) The Office may give directions on the appropriate action to the taken by the State Officer to avoid the conflict of interest and the State Officer shall comply with the directions, and refrain from participating in any deliberations with respect to the matter. 
(5) Any direction issued by the office under sub paragraph (4) shall be in writing. 
3631 
(6) Notwithstanding any directions to the contrary under subparagraph (4) a State Officer shall not influence the award of a contract to- 
(a) himself or herself; 
(b) the State Officers spouse or child; 
(c) a business associate or agent; or 
(d) a corporation, private company, partnership or other body in which the officer has a substantial or controlling interest. 
(7) Where a State Officer is present at a meeting, and an issue which is likely to result in a conflict of interest is to be discussed, the State Officer shall declare the interest at the beginning of the meeting or before the issue is deliberated upon. 
(8) A declaration of a conflict of interest under subparagraph (7) shall be recorded in the minutes of that meeting. 
(9) The Office shall maintain a register of conflicts of interest in the prescribed form in which an affected State Officer shall register the particulars of the registrable interests, stating the nature and extent of the conflict. 
(10) For purposes of subparagraph (9), the registrable interests shall include- 
(a) the interests set out in the second schedule of the Act; 
(b) any connection with a person, firm or a company, whether by relation, friendship, holding of shares or otherwise, which is subject of an investigation by the Constitution; 
( c) any application for employment or other form of engagement with the office by a family member or friend of the State Officer or by a law firm or corporation associated with the State Officer; 
(a) any application to the office, by a family member or friend of the State Officer, for clearance with respect to appointment or election to any public office; and 
( e ) any other matter which, in the opinion of the State Officer, taking into account the circumstances thereof, is necessary for registration as a conflict of interest. 
(11) The Office shall keep the register of conflicts of interest for five years after the last entry in each volume of the register. 
(12) The Office shall prepare a report of the registered interests within thirty days after the close of a financial year. 
(13) A State Officer shall ensure that an entry of registrable interests under subparagraph (9) is updated and to notify the office of any changes in the registrable interests, within one month of each change occurring. 
Participation in tenders invited by the office 
17. (1) A State Officer shall not participate in a tender for the supply of goods or services to the office. 
(2) Notwithstanding subparagraph (1) a company or entity associated with the State Officer shall not be construed as trading with the office, unless- 
(a) the State Officer has a controlling shareholding in the company or entity; 
(b) the State Officer is a director of the company; or 
(c) the State Officer is a managing partner in a law firm providing services to the office. 
Public collections 
18. (1)A State Officer shall not solicit for contributions from the office or any other person or, public entity for a public purpose unless the President has, by notice in the Gazette, declared a national disaster and allowed a public collection for the purpose of the national disaster in accordance with the law. 
(2) A State Officer shall not participate in a public collection of funds in a way that reflects adversely on the State Officers' integrity, impartiality or interferes with the Performance of the official duties. 
(3) Nothing in this clause shall be constructed as prohibiting a State Officer from making voluntary contribution. 
