3644 THE KENYA GAZETTE 2nd September, 2016 
(5) The County Secretary shall maintain a register of all gifts received by the State Officers serving in the Office and another register of all gifts given by the Office to other State or Public Officers. 
Wrongful or unlawful use of office to acquire property 
15. A State Officer shall not use the office to wrongfully or unlawfully acquire or influence the acquisition of public or other property. 
Conflict of interest 
16. (1) A State Officer shall use the best efforts to avoid being in a conflict of interest or in a situation where his/her personal interests conflict or appear to conflict with the State Officer's official duties. 
(2) Without limiting the generality of subparagraph, A State Officer shall not hold shares or have any other interest in a corporation, partnership or other body, directly or through another person, if holding those shares or having that interest would result in a conflict of interest of the State Officer and his/her official duties; 
(1) A State Officer whose personal interest's conflict with his/her official duties shall declare the personal interest to the County Secretary: 
(2) The County Secretary may give directions on the appropriate action to be taken by the State Officer to avoid the conflict of interest and the State Officer shall comply with the directions, and refrain from participating in any deliberations with respect to the matter; 
(3) Any direction issued by the County Secretary under sub paragraph (3) shall be in writing; 
(4) Notwithstanding any directions to the contrary under subparagraph (3), a State Officer shall not influence the award of a contract to - 
(a) himself or herself; 
(b) the State Officer's spouse or child; 
(c) business associate or agent; or 
(d) a corporation, private company, partnership or other body in which the officer has a substantial or controlling interest. 
(5) Where a State Officer is present at a meeting, and an issue which is likely to result in a conflict of interest is to be discussed, the State Officer shall declare the interest at the beginning of the meeting or before the issue is deliberated upon; 
(6) A declaration of a conflict of interest under subparagraph (6) shall be recorded in the minutes of that meeting; 
(7) The County Secretary shall maintain a register of conflicts of interest in the prescribed form in which an affected State Officer shall register the particulars of the registrable interests, stating the nature and extent of the conflict; 
(8) For purposes of subparagraph (8), the registrable interests shall include: 
(a) the interests set out in the second schedule of the Act; 
(b) any connection with a person, firm or a company, whether by relation, friendship, holding of shares or otherwise, which is subject of an investigation by the Commission; 
(c) any application for employment or other form of engagement with the Office by a family member or friend of the State Officer or by a law firm or corporation associated with the State Officer; 
(d) any application to the Office, by a family member or friend of the State Officer, for clearance with respect to appointment or election to any public office; and 
(e) Any other matter which, in the opinion of the State Officer, taking into account the circumstances thereof, is necessary for registration as a conflict of interest. 
(9) The County Secretary shall keep the register of conflicts of interest for five years after the last entry in each volume of the register; (10) The County Secretary shall prepare a report of the registered interests within thirty days after the close of a financial year; 
(11) A State Officer shall ensure that an entry of registrable interests under subparagraph (8) is updated and to-notify the County Secretary of any changes in the registrable interests, within one month of each change occurring. 
2nd September, 2016 
Participation in tenders invited by the Office 
17. (1) A State Officer shall not participate in a tender for the supply of goods or services to the Office. 
(1) (1) Notwithstanding subparagraph (1) a company or entity associated with the State Officer shall not be construed as trading with the Office, unless- 
(a) the State Officer has a controlling shareholding in the company or entity; or 
(b) the State Officer is a director of the company; or 
(c) the State Officer is a managing partner in a law firm providing services to the Office. 
Public Collections 
18. (1)A State Officer shall not solicit for contributions from the Office or any other person or, public entity for a public purpose unless the President has, by notice in the Gazette, declared a national disaster and allowed a public collection for the purpose of the national disaster in accordance with the law. 
(2) A State Officer shall not participate in a public collection of funds in a way that reflects adversely on the State Officers' integrity, impartiality or interferes with the performance of the official duties. 
(3) Nothing in this clause shall be construed as prohibiting a State Officer from making voluntary contribution. 
Bank accounts outside Kenya 
19. (1) Subject to Article 76(2) of the Constitution or any other written law, a State Officer shall not open or continue to operate a bank account outside Kenya without the approval of the Commission. (2) A State Officer who has reasonable grounds for opening or operating a bank account outside Kenya shall apply to the Commission for approval to open or operate a bank account outside Kenya. 
(3) A State Officer who operates or controls the operation of a bank account outside Kenya shall submit statements of the account annually to the Commission and authorize the Commission to verify the statements and any other relevant information from the foreign financial institution in which the account is held. 
(4) Subject to sub-paragraph (1) and (2), a person who is appointed as a state Officer in the Office and has a bank account outside Kenya shall, upon such appointment close such bank account within 3 months or such other period as the Commission may prescribe by notice in the Gazette. 
(5) Subject to paragraph (4) a State Officer may open or continue to operate a bank account outside Kenya as maybe authorised by the commission in writing. 
Acting for foreigners 
20. (1) A State Officer shall not be an agent of, or further the interests of a foreign government, organization or individual in a manner that may be detrimental to the security interests of Kenya, except when acting in the course of official duty. 
(2) For the purposes of this paragraph- 
( a ) an individual is a foreigner if the individual is not a citizen of Kenya; and 
(b) an organization is foreign if it is established outside Kenya or is owned or controlled by a foreign government, organization or individual. 
Care of property 
21. (1) À State Officer shall take all reasonable steps to ensure that public property in the State Officer's custody, possession or control is taken care of and is in good repair and condition. 
(2) A State Officer shall not use public property, funds or services that are acquired in the course of or as a result of the official duties, for private activities or activities that are not related to the official work of the State Officer. 
(3) A State Officer shall return to the Office all the public property in his or her custody, possession or control at the end of the election or contract term. 
(4) A State Officer who contravenes subparagraph (2) or (3) shall, in addition to any other penalties provided for under the Constitution, the Act or any other law, be personally liable for any loss or damage to the public property. 
