217 THE KENYA GAZETTE 6th October, 2017 
5478 
Selected Candidate Position 
Frank Mwangemi (Dr.) CECM Health Services 
Victor Kongo (Dr.) CECM Water and Irrigation 
Vincent Masawi (Dr.) CECM Finance and Planning 
Daniel Makoko Mwakisha CECM Education and Libraries 
Dated the 3rd October, 2017. 
GRANTON G. SAMBOJA, 
MR/3593544 Governor, Taita Taveta County. GAZETTE NOTICE NO. 9905 
THE CONSTITUTION OF KENYA 
THE COUNTY GOVERNMENTS ACT 
(No. 7 of 2012) 
IN EXERCISE of the powers conferred under Article 179 (4) of the Constitution of Kenya, Section 30 (2) (a), 30 (2) (l) and 31 (d) of the County Governments Act, the Governor Taita Taveta County Constitutes the Projects Verification task force and appoints the following to the Taskforce: 
Name Position 
Philemon Mwaisaka Chairman 
Rachael Dawai Member 
Anna Kina Nyambu (Mrs.) Member 
Beatrice Mjomba (Ms.) Member 
Anderson Mwaloma Member 
Stanley Makeo Member 
Loraine Wakesho (Ms.) Member 
Constantine Malai Member 
Bakari Mwakileo Member 
The terms of reference of the taskforce are— 
(a) to inspect all the projects implemented by the County Government of Taita Taveta (CGTT) since inception in 2013 and in accordance with CIDP and annual budgets; 
(b) to evaluate the projects and confirm quality, status of completion and justification on any delayed or stalled projects; (c) to evaluate any project variations and justifications for the variations; 
(d) to evaluate project cost and value for money in accordance with the project delivery objectives; 
(e) to draft a comprehensive report on the task force findings and recommendations; 
(f) to present the report and any recommendations to the Governor of Taita Taveta, Hon. Granton Graham Samboja; 
Dated the 3rd October, 2017. 
GRANTON G. SAMBOJA, 
MR/3593544 Governor, Taita Taveta County. GAZETTE NOTICE NO. 9906 
THE CONSTITUTION OF KENYA 
THE COUNTY GOVERNMENT ACT 
(No. 7 of 2012) 
THE COUNTY ASSEMBLY OF TAITA TAVETA 
THE TAITA TAVETA COUNTY ASSEMBLY STANDING 
ORDERS 
PURSUANT to Standing Order 27 (1) – (4) of the Taita Taveta County Assembly Standing Orders, it is notified for the information of Members of the County Assembly of Taita Taveta and the general public that there shall be a special sitting of the County Assembly to be held in the County Assembly Chambers, Wundanyi on Friday, 6th October, 2017 at 9.00 a.m. The business to be transacted shall be: Swearing in of the nominated members of the County Assembly of Taita Taveta and official opening of the Taita Taveta County Assembly by the Governor. 
Dated the 5th October, 2017. 
MAGHANGA MESHACK MAGANGA, 
MR/3593553 Speaker, County Assembly of Taita Taveta. 6th October, 2017 
GAZETTE NOTICE NO. 9907 
THE COUNTY GOVERNMENT ACT 
(No. 7 of 2012) 
THE COUNTY GOVERNMENT OF UASIN GISHU 
UASIN GISHU COUNTY PUBLIC SERVICE BOARD 
REPORT TO THE COUNTY ASSEMBLY FOR THE YEAR 2016 
1.0 Introduction 
PURSUANT to section 59 (1) (f) of the County Governments Act, 2012, the functions and powers of the County Public Service Board inter alia, is to evaluate and report to the County Assembly each December on the extent to which the values and principles referred to in Article 10 and 232 of the Constitution of Kenya, 2010 are complied with in the county public service. Further, section 59 (5) of the County Governments Act, 2012 states that the report prepared shall include— (a) all the steps taken and decisions made by the Board in the realization of values and principles; 
(b) specific recommendations that require to be implemented in the promotion and protection of the values and principles; 
(c) specific decisions on particulars of persons or public body who have violated the values and principles, including actions taken or recommendations against them; 
(d) any impediment in the promotion of the values and principles; and 
(e) the programmes the Board is undertaking or has planned to undertake in the medium term towards the promotion of the values and principles. 
2.0 Scope of the Report: 
This report covers the extent to which the values and principles as enshrined in Article 10 and 232 of the Constitution of Kenya, 2010 were embedded in Board decisions and policies with a view of translating these values into practice. 
3.0 Measures/Steps Taken in the Realization of National Values and Principles of Public Service. 
During the year under review, the Board undertook the following measures to realize the national values and principles of public service— 
(a) the CPSB in liaison with the Training Committee undertook on-job training for security and enforcement officers at the Prisons Staff Training College, Ruiru in March/April 2016; 
(b) in an endeavor to uphold transparency and accountability, job advertisements were carried in daily newspapers with nationwide circulation and notices through the sub-county and ward levels to widen reach to the grassroots. Applications were done online with an exception of positions that targeted local community organizations in which hard copy applications were accepted; 
(c) on Accountability for administrative acts, the CPSB issued advisories to the executive on the following issues: Pension administration for staff, acting appointment, payment of approved extraneous allowance, temporary staff wages and implementation of requirements on registers of conflict of interests and gifts. The executive was also encouraged to adhere to circulars from constitutional commissions; 
(d) members of the Board, in the course of their duties, encountered instances where conflict of interest would have arisen and such interests were declared to avoid conflict in discharge of their duties; 
(e) during the year under review, the Board undertook departmental sensitization sessions with all staff on the Code of Conduct and Ethics. New employees were equally sensitized on the values and principles as enshrined in Articles 10 and 232 of the Constitution of Kenya, 2010; 
(f) continuous Professional Development was undertaken by all Board Members through participation in workshops/weminars/courses in various professional bodies and institutions e.g. Institute of Human Resource Management, Kenya School of Government, ESAMI and Advantage Training. The trainings focused on governance, leadership and industrial relations. Applications by county officers for 