6th October, 2017 THE KENYA GAZETTE 5479 
professional courses were approved in line with public service provisions for training and study leave; 
(g) the recruitment process as undertaken by the Board affords equal opportunity to all and encourages Women, Youth, Persons with Disabilities and the marginalized to apply; affirmative action was applied to ensure inclusion. A total of two hundred and twenty-two (222) employees were recruited during the period under review: One hundred and fifty-six (156) male – 70.3% and sixty-six (66) females – 29.7%. The recruitment was based on skill gaps in various departments. Through affirmative action the Board recruited three (3) persons with disabilities and one (1) person from the Ogiek community. 
4.0 Specific Decisions on Particulars of Persons or Public Body that have Violated the Values and Principles, including Action taken or Recommended against them 
Name Violation Value/Principle Action Taken/ Violated 
Recommendation Administrative Falsification Integrity, Dismissal from Officer of documents Transparency and service 
Accountability 
Customer Care Falsification Integrity, Dismissal from Assistant of documents Transparency and service 
Accountability 
Plant Operator Theft by Efficient, Effective Dismissal from servant and Economic use service 
of Resources 
Driver Theft by Efficient, Effective Dismissal from servant and Economic use service 
of Resources 
Pharmaceutical Falsification Integrity, Dismissal from Technologist of documents Transparency and service 
Accountability 
5.0 Impediments in the Promotion of the Values and Principles 
In the course of promoting the values and principles referred to in the Constitution of Kenya, 2010 Article 10 and 232, The CPSB encountered the following challenges— 
(a) there was lack of support from all stakeholders; 
(b) apathy on the side of public officers and the general public arising from national issues that project corruption as a way of life; 
(c) lack of cooperation from controlling officer who are expected to report cases of violation of values and principles by staff under them; 
(d) intense lobbying by the public in relation to recruitment. This creates a culture of extortion by fraudsters who take advantage of the situation; 
(e) lack of co-operation from complainants (The Public) in providing conclusive evidence for prosecution of cases relating to extortion/bribery; 
(f) the Marginalized and Persons with Disabilities seem to shy-off from competitive recruitment hence difficulty in attaining inclusion in the county public service; 
(g) insufficient budgetary allocation for programs on protection and promotion of values and principles; 
6.0 Specific Recommendations and Programmes the Board is Undertaking or has Planned to Undertake in the Medium Term Towards the Protection and Promotion of the Values and Principles 
GAZETTE NOTICE NO. 9909 
indicated below: 
5479 
(a) Delegation of specific roles in promotion of values and principles to Chief Officers with a requirement to submit a quarterly report to the Board. 
(b) Providing regular advisories to the County Executive Committee on aspects of human resource management and development that enhance the practice of good governance. 
(c) Identification and training of Departmental Champions on values of principles. 
(d) Provide alternative communication channels for purposes of receiving feedback from staff and the public on violation of values and principles. 
(e) Enhance collaboration with Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission on protection of values and principles. 
(f) Carry out a baseline survey on values and principles. 
(g) Continuous collaboration with the National Council of Persons with Disabilities to sensitize their members on the mandate of the Board and demystify the recruitment process and requirements for inclusion in the public service. 
Dated the 23rd December, 2016. 
ANNE J. KOECH, 
MR2694875 Ag. Secretary, Uasin Gishu CPSB. GAZETTE NOTICE NO. 9908 
THE LABOUR RELATIONS ACT 
(No. 14 of 2007) 
APPLICATION FOR REGISTRATION OF TRADE UNION 
NOTICE is given pursuant to section 14, 15 and 17 of the Labour Relations Act, to all trade unions, federation of trade unions, employers organizations or federation, of the receipt of application for registration of the following: 
KENYA NATIONAL UNION OF ENGINEERS 
The notice is given to the following registered trade unions, employers organizations or federations— 
(a) Union of Kenya Civil Servants, 
(b) Kenya Electrical Trades and Allied Workers Union, 
(c) Railways Workers Union (Kenya), 
(d) Kenya Engineering Workers Union, 
(e) Dock Workers Union, 
(f) Communication Workers Union (Kenya), 
(g) Kenya Airways Workers Union, 
(h) Aviation and Airport Services Workers Union, 
(i) National Union of Water and Sewerage Employees, 
(j) Kenya County Government Workers Union, 
(k) Kenya Building, Construction, Timber and Furniture Industries Employees Union, 
(l) Kenya Petroleum Oil Workers Union, 
(m)Amalgamated Union of Kenya Metal Workers, 
(n) Kenya Chemical Workers Union, 
to submit in writing any such objections against the applicants within twenty-one (21) days from the date of publication of this notice. 
Dated the 19th September, 2017. 
E. N. GICHEHA, 
MR/3567713 Registrar of Trade Unions. 